 A note or two on hackish usages in Russian have been added where they are
parallel with and comprehensible to English-speakers. UNIX Conventions
================ References such as `malloc(3)' and `patch(1)' are to UNIX
facilities (some of which, such as patch(1), are actually freeware
distributed over USENET). The UNIX manuals use `foo(n)' to refer to item foo
in section n) of the manual, where n=1 is utilities, n=2 is system calls, n=3
is C library routines and n=6 is games. Sections 4, 5, 7 and 8 have changed
roles frequently and in any case are not referred to from any of the entries.
Pronunciation Guide =================== Pronunciation keys are provided in
the jargon listing for all entries which are neither dictionary words
pronounced as in standard English nor obvious compounds of same. Slashes
bracket a phonetic pronunciation to be interpreted using the following
conventions: 1. Syllables are hyphen-separated, except that an apostrophe or
back-apostrophe follows each accented syllable (the back apostrophe marks a
secondary accent in some words of four or more syllables). 2. Consonants are
pronounced as in American English. The letter "g" is always hard (as in "got"
rather than "giant"); "ch" is soft ("church" rather than "chemist"). The
letter "j" is the sound that occurs twice in "judge". The letter "s" is
always as in "pass", never a z sound (but it is sometimes doubled at the end
of syllables to emphasize this). The digraph `dh' is the th of `these
clothes', not of `thick'. The digraph `kh' is the guttural of `loch' or
`l'chaim'. 3. Vowels are represented as follows: a back, that ah father, palm
ar far, mark aw flaw, caught ay bake, rain e less, men ee easy, ski eir
their, software i trip, hit ie life, sky o cot, top oh flow, sew oo loot,
through or more, door ow out, how oy boy, coin uh but, some u put, foot y yet
yoo few [y]oo oo with optional fronting as in `news' (noos or nyoos) An
at-sign is used for the "schwa" sound of unstressed or occluded vowels (the
one that is often written with an upside-down "e"). The schwa vowel is
omitted in syllables containing vocalic r, l, m or n; that is, "kitten" and
"color" would be rendered /kit'n/ and /kul'r/, not /kit'@n/ and /kul'@r/. The
Jargon (Low Moby, Current Terminology)
****************************************** {= =} @-SIGN PARTY n. Semi-closed
parties thrown at SF conventions (esp. the annual Worldcon) for hackers; one
must have a NETWORK ADDRESS to get in, or at least be in company with someone
who is. One of the most reliable opportunities for hackers to meet face to
face with people who might otherwise be represented by mere phosphor dots on
their screens. Compare BOINK. @BEGIN [primarily CMU] with @End, used
humorously in writing to indicate a context or to remark on the surrounded
text. From the SCRIBE command of the same name. For example: @Begin(Flame)
Predicate logic is the only good programming language. Anyone who would use
anything else is an idiot. Also, computers should be tredecimal instead of
binary. @End(Flame) On USENET, this construct would more frequently be
rendered as <FLAME ON> and <FLAME OFF>. /DEV/NULL [from the UNIX null device,
used as a data sink; note, if you are viewing an ASCII-only version of this
file, that the actual case is all-lower: "/dev/null"] n. A notional `black
hole' in any information space being discussed, used or referred to. A
controversial posting, for example, might end "Kudos to rasputin@kremlin.org,
flames to /dev/null". see BIT BUCKET, NULL DEVICE. 2 INFIX n. In translation
software written by hackers, infix 2 often represents the syllable "to" with
the comnnotation "translate to"; as in dvi2ps (DVI to PostScript), int2string
(integer to string) and texi2roff (Texinfo to [nt]roff). {= A =}