 :@-party: /at´par`tee/, n. [from the @-sign in an Internet address] (alt.:
`@-sign party' /at´si:n par`tee/) A semi-closed party thrown for hackers at a
science-fiction convention (esp. the annual World Science Fiction Convention
or "Worldcon"); one must have a {network address} to get in, or at least be
in company with someone who does. One of the most reliable opportunities for
hackers to meet face to face with people who might otherwise be represented
by mere phosphor dots on their screens. Compare {boink}. The first recorded
@-party was held at the Westercon (a U.S. western regional SF convention)
over the July 4th weekend in 1980. It is not clear exactly when the canonical
@-party venue shifted to the Worldcon but it had certainly become established
by Constellation in 1983. Sadly, the @-party tradition has been in decline
since about 1996, mainly because having an @-address no longer functions as
an effective lodge pin. We are informed, however, that rec.skydiving members
have maintained a tradition of formation jumps in the shape of an @. A abbrev
ABEND accumulator ACK Acme ad-hockery address harvester adger admin ADVENT
adware AFAIK AFJ AFK AI AI-complete airplane rule Alderson loop aliasing bug
Alice and Bob All hardware sucks, all software sucks. all your base are
belong to us alpha geek alpha particles alt alt bit Aluminum Book
ambimouseterous Amiga Amiga Persecution Complex amp off amper and there was
much rejoicing Angband angle brackets angry fruit salad annoybot annoyware
ANSI standard ANSI standard pizza anti-idiotarianism AOL! app Archimedes
arena arg ARMM armor-plated asbestos asbestos cork award asbestos longjohns
ASCII ASCII art ASCIIbetical order astroturfing atomic attoparsec Aunt Tillie
AUP autobogotiphobia autoconfiscate automagically avatar awk