 A few new definitions attached to entries are marked [proposed]. These are
usually generalizations suggested by editors or Usenet respondents in the
process of commenting on previous definitions of those entries. These are
_not_ represented as established jargon. :Format For New Entries:
======================== You can mail submissions for the Jargon File to
<jargon@snark.thyrsus.com>. We welcome new jargon, and corrections to or
amplifications of existing entries. You can improve your submission's chances
of being included by adding background information on user population and
years of currency. References to actual usage via URLs and/or DejaNews
pointers are particularly welcomed. All contributions and suggestions about
the Jargon File will be considered donations to be placed in the public
domain as part of this File, and may be used in subsequent paper editions.
Submissions may be edited for accuracy, clarity and concision. We are looking
to expand the File's range of technical specialties covered. There are
doubtless rich veins of jargon yet untapped in the scientific computing,
graphics, and networking hacker communities; also in numerical analysis,
computer architectures and VLSI design, language design, and many other
related fields. Send us your jargon! We are _not_ interested in straight
technical terms explained by textbooks or technical dictionaries unless an
entry illuminates `underground' meanings or aspects not covered by official
histories. We are also not interested in `joke' entries -- there is a lot of
humor in the file but it must flow naturally out of the explanations of what
hackers do and how they think. It is OK to submit items of jargon you have
originated if they have spread to the point of being used by people who are
not personally acquainted with you. We prefer items to be attested by
independent submission from two different sites. An HTML version of the File
is available at http://www.tuxedo.org/jargon. Please send us URLs for
materials related to the entries, so we can enrich the File's link structure.
The Jargon File will be regularly maintained and made available for browsing
on the World Wide Web, and will include a version number. Read it, pass it
around, contribute -- this is _your_ monument! The Jargon Lexicon
****************** = 0 = ===== :/dev/null: /dev-nuhl/ n. [from the Unix null
device, used as a data sink] A notional `black hole' in any information space
being discussed, used, or referred to. A controversial posting, for example,
might end "Kudos to rasputin@kremlin.org, flames to /dev/null". see {bit
bucket}.