 A few new definitions attached to entries are marked [proposed]. These are
usually generalizations suggested by editors or Usenet respondents in the
process of commenting on previous definitions of those entries. These are
*not* represented as established jargon. :Format For New Entries:
======================== You can mail submissions for the Jargon File to
jargon@@snark.thyrsus.com. All contributions and suggestions about the Jargon
File will be considered donations to be placed in the public domain as part
of this File, and may be used in subsequent paper editions. Submissions may
be edited for accuracy, clarity and concision. Try to conform to the format
already being used in the ASCII on-line version --- head-words separated from
text by a colon (double colon for topic entries), cross-references in curly
brackets (doubled for topic entries), pronunciations in slashes, etymologies
in square brackets, single-space after definition numbers and word classes,
etc. Stick to the standard ASCII character set (7-bit printable, no high-half
characters or [nt]roff/TeX/Scribe escapes), as one of the versions generated
from the master file is an info document that has to be viewable on a
character tty. We are looking to expand the File's range of technical
specialties covered. There are doubtless rich veins of jargon yet untapped in
the scientific computing, graphics, and networking hacker communities; also
in numerical analysis, computer architectures and VLSI design, language
design, and many other related fields. Send us your jargon! We are *not*
interested in straight technical terms explained by textbooks or technical
dictionaries unless an entry illuminates `underground' meanings or aspects
not covered by official histories. We are also not interested in `joke'
entries -- there is a lot of humor in the file but it must flow naturally out
of the explanations of what hackers do and how they think. It is OK to submit
items of jargon you have originated if they have spread to the point of being
used by people who are not personally acquainted with you. We prefer items to
be attested by independent submission from two different sites. An HTML
version of the File is available at http://www.ccil.org/jargon. Please send
us URLs for materials related to the entries, so we can enrich the File's
link structure. The Jargon File will be regularly maintained and made
available for browsing on the World Wide Web, and will include a version
number. Read it, pass it around, contribute -- this is *your* monument! The
Jargon Lexicon ****************** = A = ===== :abbrev: /*-breev'/, /*-brev'/
/n./ Common abbreviation for `abbreviation'.