 A note or two on hackish usages in Russian have been added where they are
parallel with English idioms and thus comprehensible to English-speakers.
Pronunciation Guide =================== Pronunciation keys are provided in
the jargon listing for all entries that are neither dictionary words
pronounced as in standard English nor obvious compounds of same. Slashes
bracket a phonetic pronunciation to be interpreted using the following
conventions: 1. Syllables are hyphen-separated, except that an apostrophe or
back-apostrophe follows each accented syllable (the back apostrophe marks a
secondary accent in some words of four or more syllables). 2. Consonants are
pronounced as in American English. The letter `g' is always hard (as in "got"
rather than "giant"); `ch' is soft ("church" rather than "chemist"). The
letter `j' is the sound that occurs twice in "judge". The letter `s' is
always as in "pass", never a z sound (but it is sometimes doubled at the end
of syllables to emphasize this). The digraph `kh' is the guttural of "loch"
or "l'chaim". 3. Vowels are represented as follows: a back, that ah father,
palm ar far, mark aw flaw, caught ay bake, rain e less, men ee easy, ski eir
their, software i trip, hit ie life, sky o cot, top oh flow, sew oo loot,
through or more, door ow out, how oy boy, coin uh but, some u put, foot y yet
yoo few [y]oo /oo/ with optional fronting as in `news' (/nooz/ or /nyooz/) An
at-sign is used for the `schwa' sound of unstressed or occluded vowels (the
one that is often written with an upside-down `e'). The schwa vowel is
omitted in syllables containing vocalic r, l, m or n; that is, `kitten' and
`color' would be rendered /kit'n/ and /kuhl'r/, not /kit'@n/ and /kuhl'@r/.
Other Lexicon Conventions ========================= Entries are sorted in
case-blind ASCII collation order (rather than the letter-by-letter order
ignoring interword spacing common in mainstream dictionaries), except that
all entries beginning with nonalphabetic characters are sorted to the
beginning. The case-blindness is a feature, not a bug. The `OED' referred to
in several entries is, of course, the Oxford English Dictionary. In pure
ASCII renderings of the Jargon File, you will see {} used to bracket words
which themselves have entries in the File. This isn't done all the time for
every such word, but it is done everywhere that a reminder seems useful that
the term has a jargon meaning and one might wish to refer to its entry. In
this all-ASCII version, headwords for topic entries are distinguished from
those for ordinary entries by being followed by "::" rather than ":";
similarly, references are surrounded by "{{" and "}}" rather than "{" and
"}". References such as `malloc(3)' and `patch(1)' are to UNIX facilities
(some of which, such as `patch(1)', are actually freeware distributed over
USENET). The UNIX manuals use `foo(n)' to refer to item foo in section (n) of
the manual, where n=1 is utilities, n=2 is system calls, n=3 is C library
routines, n=6 is games, and n=8 (where present) is system administration
utilities. Sections 4, 5, and 7 have changed roles frequently and in any case
are not referred to from any of the entries. The Jargon Lexicon
****************** = [^A-Za-z] (see {regexp}) = ============================
'Snooze: /snooz/ [FidoNet] n. Fidonews, the weekly official on-line
newsletter of FidoNet. As the editorial policy of Fidonews is "anything that
arrives, we print", there are often large articles completely unrelated to
FidoNet, which in turn tend to elicit {flamage} in subsequent issues. (tm):
[USENET] ASCII rendition of the trademark symbol, appended to phrases that
the author feels should be recorded for posterity, perhaps in future editions
of this lexicon. Sometimes used ironically as a form of protest against the
recent spate of software and algorithm patents and `look and feel' lawsuits.
-ware: [from `software'] suff. Commonly used to form jargon terms for classes
of software. For examples, see {crippleware}, {crudware}, {firmware},
{freeware}, {fritterware}, {guiltware}, {liveware}, {meatware}, {payware},
{psychedelicware}, {shareware}, {shelfware}, {vaporware}, {wetware}.
/dev/null: /dev-nuhl/ [from the UNIX null device, used as a data sink] n. A
notional `black hole' in any information space being discussed, used or
referred to. A controversial posting, for example, might end "Kudos to
rasputin@kremlin.org, flames to /dev/null". see {bit bucket}, {null device}.
120 reset: [from 120 volts, U.S. wall current] n. To cycle power on a machine
in order to reset or unjam it. Compare {Big Red Switch}, {power cycle}. 2:
infix. In translation software written by hackers, infix 2 often represents
the syllable *to* with the connotation `translate to'; as in dvi2ps (DVI to
PostScript), int2string (integer to string) and texi2roff (Texinfo to
[nt]roff). @-party: /at'par`tee/ [from the @-sign in an Internet address] n.
(also `@-sign party' /at'sien par`tee/) Semi-closed parties thrown at
science-fiction conventions (esp. the annual Worldcon) for hackers; one must
have a {network address} to get in, or at least be in company with someone
who does. One of the most reliable opportunities for hackers to meet face to
face with people who might otherwise be represented by mere phosphor dots on
their screens. Compare {boink}. @Begin: [written only; primarily CMU] n.
Equivalent of {\begin} in the Scribe text formatting language; used as an
idiom by Scribe users. \begin: [written only, from the LaTeX command] With
\end, used humorously in writing to indicate a context or to remark on the
surrounded text. For example: \begin{flame} Predicate logic is the only good
programming language. Anyone who would use anything else is an idiot. Also,
computers should be tredecimal instead of binary. \end{flame} The Scribe
users at CMU and elsewhere used to use @Begin/@End in an identical way. On
USENET, this construct would more frequently be rendered as "<FLAME ON>" and
"<FLAME OFF>". = A = ===== abbrev: /@'breev/, /@'brev/ n. Common abbreviation
for `abbreviation'. abend: [ABnormal End] /ab'end/ n. Abnormal termination
(of software); {crash}; {lossage}. Derives from an error message on the IBM
360; used jokingly by hackers but seriously mainly by {code grinder}s.
accumulator: n. Archaic term for a register. Cited here because on-line use
of it is a fairly reliable indication that the user has been around for quite
a while and/or that the architecture under discussion is quite old. The term
in full is almost never used of microprocessor registers, for example, though
symbolic names for arithmetic registers beginning in `A' derive from
historical use of `accumulator' (and not, actually, from `arithmetic'!).
Confusingly, though, an `a' register name prefix may also stand for
`address', as for example on the Motorola 680x0 family. ACK: /ak/ interj. 1.
[from the ASCII mnemonic for #b0000110] Acknowledge. Used to register one's
presence (compare mainstream *Yo!*). An appropriate response to {ping} or
{ENQ}. 2. [prob. from the Bloom County comic strip] An exclamation of
surprised disgust, esp. in "Oop ack!". Semi-humorous. Generally this sense is
distinguished by a following exclamation point. 3. Used to politely interrupt
someone to tell them you understand their point. see {NAK}. Thus, for
example, you might cut off an overly long explanation with "Ack. Ack. Ack. I
get it now". see also {NAK}. There is also a usage "ACK?" (from sense #1)
meaning "Are you there?", often used in email when earlier mail has produced
no reply, or during a lull in {talk mode} to see if the person has gone away
(the standard humorous response is of course {NAK} (sense #2), i.e., "I'm not
here"). ad-hockery: /ad-hok'@r-ee/ [Purdue] n. 1. Gratuitous assumptions made
inside certain programs, esp. expert systems, which lead to the appearance of
semi-intelligent behavior, but are in fact entirely arbitrary. 2.
Special-case code to cope with some awkward input which would otherwise cause
a program to {choke}, presuming normal inputs are dealt with in some cleaner
and more regular way. Also called `ad-hackery'. Ada:: n. A
{{Pascal}}-descended language that has been made mandatory for Department of
Defense software projects by the Pentagon. Hackers are nearly unanimous in
observing that, technically, it is precisely what one might expect given that
kind of endorsement by fiat; designed by committee, crockish, difficult to
use, and overall a disastrous, multi-billion-dollar boondoggle; one common
description is "The PL/1 of the 1980s". Hackers find Ada's exception-handling
and inter-process communication features particularly hilarious. Ada Lovelace
(the daughter of Lord Byron who became the world's first programmer while
cooperating with Babbage on the design of his mechanical computing engines in
the mid-1800s) would almost certainly blanch at the use her name has been
latterly put to; the kindest thing that has been said about it it is that
there is probably a good small language screaming to get out from inside its
vast, {elephantine} bulk. adger: /adj'r/ [UCLA] vt. To make a bonehead move
with consequences that could have been foreseen with a slight amount of
mental effort. E.g., "He started removing files and promptly adgered the
whole project." Compare {dumbass attack}. admin: /ad-min'/ n. Short for
`administrator'; very commonly used in speech or on-line to refer to the
systems person in charge on a computer. Common constructions on this include
`sysadmin' and `site admin' (emphasizing the administrator's role as a site
contact for email and news) or `newsadmin' (focusing on the latter). Compare
{postmaster}, {sysop}, {system mangler}.