 A cheerful little bird is sitting here singing. >drop rod Dropped. >take
bird You catch the bird in the wicker cage. >take rod Taken. >w At Top of
Small Pit At your feet is a small pit breathing traces of white mist. A west
passage end s here except for a small crack leading on. Rough stone steps
lead down the pit. >down In Hall of Mists You are at one end of a vast hall
stretching forward out of sight to the west. There are openings to either
side. Nearby, a wide stone staircase leads downward. The hall is filled with
wisps of white mist swaying to and fro almos t as if alive. A cold wind blows
up the staircase. There is a passage at the top of a dome behind you. Rough
stone steps lead up the dome. This game defined the terse, dryly humorous
style since expected in text adventure games, and popularized several tag
lines that have become fixtures of hacker-speak: "A huge green fierce snake
bars the way!" "I see no X here" (for some noun X). "You are in a maze of
twisty little passages, all alike." "You are in a little maze of twisty
passages, all different." The `magic words' {xyzzy} and {plugh} also derive
from this game. Crowther, by the way, participated in the exploration of the
Mammoth & Flint Ridge cave system; it actually has a Colossal Cave and a
Bedquilt as in the game, and the Y2 that also turns up is cavers' jargon for
a map reference to a secondary entrance. ADVENT sources are available for FTP
at ftp://ftp.wustl.edu/doc/misc/if-archive/games/source/advent.tar.Z. You can
also play it as a Java applet. There is a good page of resources at the
Colossal Cave Adventure Page. :adware: n. Software which is free to download
and use but includes pop-up banner ads somewhere. see also {-ware}.