 :Food: ====== Ethnic. Spicy. Oriental, esp. Chinese and most esp. Szechuan,
Hunan, and Mandarin (hackers consider Cantonese vaguely de'classe'). Hackers
prefer the exotic; for example, the Japanese-food fans among them will eat
with gusto such delicacies as fugu (poisonous pufferfish) and whale. Thai
food has experienced flurries of popularity. Where available, high-quality
Jewish delicatessen food is much esteemed. A visible minority of Southwestern
and Pacific Coast hackers prefers Mexican. For those all-night hacks, pizza
and microwaved burritos are big. Interestingly, though the mainstream culture
has tended to think of hackers as incorrigible junk-food junkies, many have
at least mildly health-foodist attitudes and are fairly discriminating about
what they eat. This may be generational; anecdotal evidence suggests that the
stereotype was more on the mark before the early 1980s. :Politics: ==========
Vaguely liberal-moderate, except for the strong libertarian contingent which
rejects conventional left-right politics entirely. The only safe
generalization is that hackers tend to be rather anti-authoritarian; thus,
both conventional conservatism and `hard' leftism are rare. Hackers are far
more likely than most non-hackers to either (a) be aggressively apolitical or
(b) entertain peculiar or idiosyncratic political ideas and actually try to
live by them day-to-day. :Gender and Ethnicity: ======================
Hackerdom is still predominantly male. However, the percentage of women is
clearly higher than the low-single-digit range typical for technical
professions, and female hackers are generally respected and dealt with as
equals. In the U.S., hackerdom is predominantly Caucasian with strong
minorities of Jews (East Coast) and Orientals (West Coast). The Jewish
contingent has exerted a particularly pervasive cultural influence (see
{Food}, above, and note that several common jargon terms are obviously
mutated Yiddish). The ethnic distribution of hackers is understood by them to
be a function of which ethnic groups tend to seek and value education. Racial
and ethnic prejudice is notably uncommon and tends to be met with freezing
contempt. When asked, hackers often ascribe their culture's gender- and
color-blindness to a positive effect of text-only network channels, and this
is doubtless a powerful influence. Also, the ties many hackers have to AI
research and SF literature may have helped them to develop an idea of
personhood that is inclusive rather than exclusive -- after all, if one's
imagination readily grants full human rights to future AI programs, robots,
dolphins, and extraterrestrial aliens, mere color and gender can't seem very
important any more.