 ALT: /awlt/ 1. n. The ALT shift key on an IBM PC or {clone}. 2. [possibly
lowercased] n. The `clover' or `Command' key on a Macintosh; use of this term
usually reveals that the speaker hacked PCs before coming to the Mac (see
also {command key}). Some Mac hackers, confusingly, reserve `ALT' for the
Option key. 3. n.obs. [PDP-10] Alternate name for the ASCII ESC character
(ASCII 0011011), after the keycap labeling on some older terminals. Also
`ALTMODE' (/awlt'mohd/). This character was almost never pronounced `escape'
on an ITS system, in {TECO}, or under TOPS-10 --- always ALT, as in "Type ALT
ALT to end a TECO command" or "ALT U onto the system" (for "log onto the
[ITS] system"). This was probably because ALT is more convenient to say than
`escape', especially when followed by another ALT or a character (or another
ALT *and* a character, for that matter). alt bit: /awlt bit/ [from alternate]
adj. see {meta bit}. Aluminum Book: [MIT] n. `Common LISP: The Language', by
Guy L. Steele Jr. (Digital Press, first edition 1984, second edition 1990).
Note that due to a technical screwup some printings of the second edition are
actually of a color the author describes succinctly as "yucky green". see
also {{book titles}}. amoeba: n. Humorous term for the Commodore Amiga
personal computer. amp off: [Purdue] vt. To run in {background}. From the
UNIX shell `&' operator. amper: n. Common abbreviation for the name of the
ampersand (`&', ASCII 0100110) character. see {ASCII} for other synonyms.
angle brackets: n. Either of the characters `<' (ASCII 0111100) and `>'
(ASCII 0111110) (ASCII less-than or greater-than signs). The {Real World}
angle brackets used by typographers are actually taller than a less-than or
greater-than sign. see {broket}, {{ASCII}}. angry fruit salad: n. A bad
visual-interface design that uses too many colors. This derives, of course,
from the bizarre day-glo colors found in canned fruit salad. Too often one
sees similar affects from interface designers using color window systems such
as {X}; there is a tendency to create displays that are flashy and
attention-getting but uncomfortable for long-term use.