 5. [MIT] n. Energy, drive, or ability. "I think I'll {punt} that change for
now; I've been up for 30 hours and I've run out of zorch." 6. [MIT] v. To
flunk an exam or course. :Zork: /zork/ n. The second of the great early
experiments in computer fantasy gaming; see {ADVENT}. Originally written on
MIT-DM during 1977-1979, later distributed with BSD Unix (as a patched,
sourceless RT-11 FORTRAN binary; see {retrocomputing}) and commercialized as
`The Zork Trilogy' by {Infocom}. The FORTRAN source was later rewritten for
portability and released to Usenet under the name "Dungeon". Both FORTRAN
"Dungeon" and translated C versions are available at many FTP sites. see also
{grue}. :zorkmid: /zork'mid/ n. The canonical unit of currency in
hacker-written games. This originated in {Zork} but has spread to {nethack}
and is referred to in several other games. :404 compliant: adj. The status of
a website which has been completely removed, usually by the administrators of
the hosting site as a result of net abuse by the website operators. The term
is a tongue-in-cheek reference to the standard "301 compliant" Murkowski Bill
disclaimer used by spammers. see also: {spam}, {spamvertize}. = [^A-Za-z] =
============= :404: // n. [from the HTTP error "file not found on server"]
Extended to humans to convey that the subject has no idea or no clue -
sapience not found. May be used reflexively; "Uh, I'm 404ing" means "I'm
drawing a blank". :<bobbit>: n. [Usenet: alt.folklore.urban and elsewhere]
Commonly used as a placeholder for omitted text in a followup message (not
copying the whole parent message is considered good form). Refers, of course,
to the celebrated mutilation of John Bobbitt. :4.2: /for' poynt too'/ n.
Without a prefix, this almost invariably refers to {BSD} Unix release 4.2.
Note that it is an indication of cluelessness to say "version 4.2", and
"release 4.2" is rare; the number stands on its own, or is used in the more
explicit forms 4.2BSD or (less commonly) BSD 4.2. Similar remarks apply to
"4.3", "4.4" and to earlier, less-widespread releases 4.1 and 2.9. :'Snooze:
/snooz/ [FidoNet] n. Fidonews, the weekly official on-line newsletter of
FidoNet. As the editorial policy of Fidonews is "anything that arrives, we
print", there are often large articles completely unrelated to FidoNet, which
in turn tend to elicit {flamage} in subsequent issues. :(TM): // [Usenet]
ASCII rendition of the trademark-superscript symbol appended to phrases that
the author feels should be recorded for posterity, perhaps in future editions
of this lexicon. Sometimes used ironically as a form of protest against the
recent spate of software and algorithm patents and `look and feel' lawsuits.
see also {UN*X}. :-oid: suff. [from Gree suffix -oid = `in the image of'] 1.
Used as in mainstream slang English to indicate a poor imitation, a
counterfeit, or some otherwise slightly bogus resemblance. Hackers will
happily use it with all sorts of non-Greco/Latin stem words that wouldn't
keep company with it in mainstream English. For example, "He's a nerdoid"
means that he superficially resembles a nerd but can't make the grade; a
`modemoid' might be a 300-baud box (Real Modems run at 9600 or up); a
`computeroid' might be any {bitty box}. The word `keyboid' could be used to
describe a {chiclet keyboard}, but would have to be written; spoken, it would
confuse the listener as to the speaker's city of origin. 2. More
specifically, an indicator for `resembling an android' which in the past has
been confined to science-fiction fans and hackers. It too has recently (in
1991) started to go mainstream (most notably in the term `trendoid' for
victims of terminal hipness). This is probably traceable to the
popularization of the term {droid} in "Star Wars" and its sequels. (see also
{windoid}.) Coinages in both forms have been common in science fiction for at
least fifty years, and hackers (who are often SF fans) have probably been
making `-oid' jargon for almost that long [though GLS and I can personally
confirm only that they were already common in the mid-1970s --ESR]. :-ware:
suff. [from `software'] Commonly used to form jargon terms for classes of
software. For examples, see {annoyware}, {careware}, {crippleware},
{crudware}, {freeware}, {fritterware}, {guiltware}, {liveware}, {meatware},
{payware}, {psychedelicware}, {shareware}, {shelfware}, {vaporware},
{wetware}. :/dev/null: /dev-nuhl/ n. [from the Unix null device, used as a
data sink] A notional `black hole' in any information space being discussed,
used, or referred to. A controversial posting, for example, might end "Kudos
to rasputin@kremlin.org, flames to /dev/null". see {bit bucket}. :0: Numeric
zero, as opposed to the letter `O' (the 15th letter of the English alphabet).
In their unmodified forms they look a lot alike, and various kluges invented
to make them visually distinct have compounded the confusion. If your zero is
center-dotted and letter-O is not, or if letter-O looks almost rectangular
but zero looks more like an American football stood on end (or the reverse),
you're probably looking at a modern character display (though the dotted zero
seems to have originated as an option on IBM 3270 controllers). If your zero
is slashed but letter-O is not, you're probably looking at an old-style ASCII
graphic set descended from the default typewheel on the venerable ASR-33
Teletype (Scandinavians, for whom /O is a letter, curse this arrangement). If
letter-O has a slash across it and the zero does not, your display is tuned
for a very old convention used at IBM and a few other early mainframe makers
(Scandinavians curse _this_ arrangement even more, because it means two of
their letters collide). Some Burroughs/Unisys equipment displays a zero with
a _reversed_ slash. Old CDC computers rendered letter O as an unbroken oval
and 0 as an oval broken at upper right and lower left. And yet another
convention common on early line printers left zero unornamented but added a
tail or hook to the letter-O so that it resembled an inverted Q or cursive
capital letter-O (this was endorsed by a draft ANSI standard for how to draw
ASCII characters, but the final standard changed the distinguisher to a
tick-mark in the upper-left corner). Are we sufficiently confused yet? :1TBS:
// n. The "One True Brace Style"; see {indent style}. :120 reset:
/wuhn-twen'tee ree'set/ n. [from 120 volts, U.S. wall voltage] To cycle power
on a machine in order to reset or unjam it. Compare {Big Red Switch}, {power
cycle}. :2: infix. In translation software written by hackers, infix 2 often
represents the syllable _to_ with the connotation `translate to': as in
dvi2ps (DVI to PostScript), int2string (integer to string), and texi2roff
(Texinfo to [nt]roff). :@-party: /at'par`tee/ n. [from the @-sign in an
Internet address] (alt. `@-sign party' /at'si:n par`tee/) A semi-closed party
thrown for hackers at a science-fiction convention (esp. the annual World
Science Fiction Convention or "Worldcon"); one must have a {network address}
to get in, or at least be in company with someone who does. One of the most
reliable opportunities for hackers to meet face to face with people who might
otherwise be represented by mere phosphor dots on their screens. Compare
{boink}. The first recorded @-party was held at the Westercon (a California