 A personal-part consists of either a first name or an initial followed by a
dot. A name-part consists of either: a personal-part followed by a last name
followed by an optional `jr-part' (Jr., Sr., or dynastic number) and
end-of-line, or a personal part followed by a name part (this rule
illustrates the use of recursion in BNFs, covering the case of people who use
multiple first and middle names and/or initials). A street address consists
of an optional apartment specifier, followed by a street number, followed by
a street name. A zip-part consists of a town-name, followed by a comma,
followed by a state code, followed by a ZIP-code followed by an end-of-line."
Note that many things (such as the format of a personal-part, apartment
specifier, or ZIP-code) are left unspecified. These are presumed to be
obvious from context or detailed somewhere nearby. see also {parse}. 2. Any
of a number of variants and extensions of BNF proper, possibly containing
some or all of the {regexp} wildcards such as `*' or `+'. In fact the example
above isn't the pure form invented for the Algol-60 report; it uses `[]',
which was introduced a few years later in IBM's PL/I definition but is now
universally recognized. 3. In {{science-fiction fandom}}, a `Big-Name Fan'
(someone famous or notorious). Years ago a fan started handing out
black-on-green BNF buttons at SF conventions; this confused the hacker
contingent terribly. :boa: [IBM] n. Any one of the fat cables that lurk under
the floor in a {dinosaur pen}. Possibly so called because they display a
ferocious life of their own when you try to lay them straight and flat after
they have been coiled for some time. It is rumored within IBM that channel
cables for the 370 are limited to 200 feet because beyond that length the
boas get dangerous -- and it is worth noting that one of the major cable
makers uses the trademark `Anaconda'. :board: n. 1. In-context synonym for
{bboard}; sometimes used even for Usenet newsgroups (but see usage note under
{bboard}, sense 1). 2. An electronic circuit board. :boat anchor: n. [common;
from ham radio] 1. Like {doorstop} but more severe; implies that the
offending hardware is irreversibly dead or useless. "That was a working
motherboard once. One lightning strike later, instant boat anchor!" 2. A
person who just takes up space. 3. Obsolete but still working hardware,
especially when used of an old S100-bus hobbyist system; originally a term of
annoyance, but became more and more affectionate as the hardware became more
and more obsolete. :bob: n. At Demon Internet (http://www.demon.net/), all
tech support personnel are called "Bob". (Female support personnel have an
option on "Bobette"). This has nothing to do with Bob the divine
drilling-equipment salesman of the {Church of the SubGenius}. Nor is it
acronymized from "Brother Of {BOFH}", though all parties agree it could have
been. Rather, it was triggered by an unusually large draft of new
tech-support people in 1995. It was observed that there would be much
duplication of names. To ease the confusion, it was decided that all support
techs would henceforth be known as "Bob", and identity badges were created
labelled "Bob 1" and "Bob 2". ("No, we never got any further" reports a
witness). The reason for "Bob" rather than anything else is due to a {luser}
calling and asking to speak to "Bob", despite the fact that no "Bob" was
currently working for Tech Support. Since we all know "the customer is always
right", it was decided that there had to be at least one "Bob" on duty at all
times, just in case. This sillyness inexorably snowballed. Shift leaders and
managers began to refer to their groups of "bobs". Whole ranks of support
machines were set up (and still exist in the DNS as of 1999) as bob1 through
bobN. Then came alt.tech-support.recovery, and it was filled with Demon
support personnel. They all referred to themselves, and to others, as `bob',
and after a while it caught on. There is now a Bob Code
(http://bob.bob.bofh.org/~giolla/bobcode.html) describing the Bob nature.
:bodysurf code: n. A program or segment of code written quickly in the heat
of inspiration without the benefit of formal design or deep thought. Like its
namesake sport, the result is too often a wipeout that leaves the programmer
eating sand. :BOF: /B-O-F/ or /bof/ n. 1. [common] Abbreviation for the
phrase "Birds Of a Feather" (flocking together), an informal discussion group
and/or bull session scheduled on a conference program. It is not clear where
or when this term originated, but it is now associated with the USENIX
conferences for Unix techies and was already established there by 1984. It
was used earlier than that at DECUS conferences and is reported to have been
common at SHARE meetings as far back as the early 1960s. 2. Acronym,
`Beginning of File'. :BOFH: // n. [common] Acronym, Bastard Operator From
Hell. A system administrator with absolutely no tolerance for {luser}s. "You
say you need more filespace? <massive-global-delete> seems to me you have
plenty left..." Many BOFHs (and others who would be BOFHs if they could get
away with it) hang out in the newsgroup alt.sysadmin.recovery, although there
has also been created a top-level newsgroup hierarchy (bofh.*) of their own.
Several people have written stories about BOFHs. The set usually considered
canonical is by Simon Travaglia and may be found at the Bastard Home Page
(http://bofh.ntk.net/Bastard.html). BOFHs and BOFH wannabes hang out on
{scary devil monastery} and wield {LART}s. :bogo-sort: /boh`goh-sort'/ n.
(var. `stupid-sort') The archetypical perversely awful algorithm (as opposed
to {bubble sort}, which is merely the generic _bad_ algorithm). Bogo-sort is
equivalent to repeatedly throwing a deck of cards in the air, picking them up
at random, and then testing whether they are in order. It serves as a sort of
canonical example of awfulness. Looking at a program and seeing a dumb
algorithm, one might say "Oh, I see, this program uses bogo-sort." Esp.
appropriate for algorithms with factorial or super-exponential running time
in the average case and probabilistically infinite worst-case running time.
Compare {bogus}, {brute force}, {lasherism}. A spectacular variant of
bogo-sort has been proposed which has the interesting property that, if the
Many Worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics is true, it can sort an
arbitrarily large array in linear time. (In the Many-Worlds model, the result
of any quantum action is to split the universe-before into a sheaf of
universes-after, one for each possible way the state vector can collapse; in
any one of the universes-after the result appears random.) The steps are: 1.
Permute the array randomly using a quantum process, 2. If the array is not
sorted, destroy the universe (checking that it is sorted requires O(n) time).
Implementation of step 2 is left as an exercise for the reader. :bogometer:
/boh-gom'-*t-er/ n. A notional instrument for measuring {bogosity}. Compare
the {Troll-O-Meter} and the `wankometer' described in the {wank} entry; see
also {bogus}. :BogoMIPS: /bo'go-mips/ n. The number of million times a second
a processor can do absolutely nothing. The {Linux} OS measures BogoMIPS at
startup in order to calibrate some soft timing loops that will be used later
on; details at the BogoMIPS mini-HOWTO (http://www.hobby.nl/~clifton). The
name Linus chose, of course, is an ironic comment on the uselessness of all
_other_ {MIPS} figures. :bogon: /boh'gon/ n. [very common; by analogy with
proton/electron/neutron, but doubtless reinforced after 1980 by the
similarity to Douglas Adams's `Vogons'; see the {Bibliography} in Appendix C
and note that Arthur Dent actually mispronounces `Vogons' as `Bogons' at one
point] 1. The elementary particle of bogosity (see {quantum bogodynamics}).
For instance, "the Ethernet is emitting bogons again" means that it is broken
or acting in an erratic or bogus fashion. 2. A query packet sent from a
TCP/IP domain resolver to a root server, having the reply bit set instead of
the query bit. 3. Any bogus or incorrectly formed packet sent on a network.
4. By synecdoche, used to refer to any bogus thing, as in "I'd like to go to
lunch with you but I've got to go to the weekly staff bogon". 5. A person who
is bogus or who says bogus things. This was historically the original usage,
but has been overtaken by its derivative senses 1-4. see also {bogosity},
{bogus}; compare {psyton}, {fat electrons}, {magic smoke}. The bogon has
become the type case for a whole bestiary of nonce particle names, including
the `clutron' or `cluon' (indivisible particle of cluefulness, obviously the
antiparticle of the bogon) and the futon (elementary particle of
{randomness}, or sometimes of lameness). These are not so much live usages in
themselves as examples of a live meta-usage: that is, it has become a
standard joke or linguistic maneuver to "explain" otherwise mysterious
circumstances by inventing nonce particle names. And these imply nonce
particle theories, with all their dignity or lack thereof (we might note
parenthetically that this is a generalization from "(bogus particle)
theories" to "bogus (particle theories)"!). Perhaps such particles are the
modern-day equivalents of trolls and wood-nymphs as standard starting-points
around which to construct explanatory myths. Of course, playing on an
existing word (as in the `futon') yields additional flavor. Compare {magic
smoke}. :bogon filter: /boh'gon fil'tr/ n. Any device, software or hardware,
that limits or suppresses the flow and/or emission of bogons. "Engineering
hacked a bogon filter between the Cray and the VAXen, and now we're getting
fewer dropped packets." see also {bogosity}, {bogus}. :bogon flux: /boh'gon
fluhks/ n. A measure of a supposed field of {bogosity} emitted by a speaker,
measured by a {bogometer}; as a speaker starts to wander into increasing
bogosity a listener might say "Warning, warning, bogon flux is rising". see
{quantum bogodynamics}. :bogosity: /boh-go's*-tee/ n. 1. [orig. CMU, now very
common] The degree to which something is {bogus}. Bogosity is measured with a
{bogometer}; in a seminar, when a speaker says something bogus, a listener
might raise his hand and say "My bogometer just triggered". More extremely,
"You just pinned my bogometer" means you just said or did something so
outrageously bogus that it is off the scale, pinning the bogometer needle at
the highest possible reading (one might also say "You just redlined my
bogometer"). The agreed-upon unit of bogosity is the {microLenat}. 2. The
potential field generated by a {bogon flux}; see {quantum bogodynamics}. see
also {bogon flux}, {bogon filter}, {bogus}. :bogotify: /boh-go't*-fi:/ vt. To
make or become bogus. A program that has been changed so many times as to
become completely disorganized has become bogotified. If you tighten a nut
too hard and strip the threads on the bolt, the bolt has become bogotified
and you had better not use it any more. This coinage led to the notional
`autobogotiphobia' defined as `the fear of becoming bogotified'; but is not
clear that the latter has ever been `live' jargon rather than a
self-conscious joke in jargon about jargon. see also {bogosity}, {bogus}.
:bogue out: /bohg owt/ vi. To become bogus, suddenly and unexpectedly. "His
talk was relatively sane until somebody asked him a trick question; then he
bogued out and did nothing but {flame} afterwards." see also {bogosity},
{bogus}. :bogus: adj. 1. Non-functional. "Your patches are bogus." 2.
Useless. "OPCON is a bogus program." 3. False. "Your arguments are bogus." 4.
Incorrect. "That algorithm is bogus." 5. Unbelievable. "You claim to have
solved the halting problem for Turing Machines? That's totally bogus." 6.
Silly. "Stop writing those bogus sagas." Astrology is bogus. So is a bolt
that is obviously about to break. So is someone who makes blatantly false
claims to have solved a scientific problem. (This word seems to have some,
but not all, of the connotations of {random} -- mostly the negative ones.) It
is claimed that `bogus' was originally used in the hackish sense at Princeton
in the late 1960s. It was spread to CMU and Yale by Michael Shamos, a
migratory Princeton alumnus. A glossary of bogus words was compiled at Yale
when the word was first popularized there about 1975-76. These coinages
spread into hackerdom from CMU and MIT. Most of them remained wordplay
objects rather than actual vocabulary items or live metaphors. Examples:
`amboguous' (having multiple bogus interpretations); `bogotissimo' (in a
gloriously bogus manner); `bogotophile' (one who is pathologically fascinated
by the bogus); `paleobogology' (the study of primeval bogosity). Some
bogowords, however, obtained sufficient live currency to be listed elsewhere
in this lexicon; see {bogometer}, {bogon}, {bogotify}, and {quantum
bogodynamics} and the related but unlisted {Dr. Fred Mbogo}. By the early
1980s `bogus' was also current in something like hacker usage sense in West
Coast teen slang, and it had gone mainstream by 1985. A correspondent from
Cambridge reports, by contrast, that these uses of `bogus' grate on British
nerves; in Britain the word means, rather specifically, `counterfeit', as in
"a bogus 10-pound note". :Bohr bug: /bohr buhg/ n. [from quantum physics] A
repeatable {bug}; one that manifests reliably under a possibly unknown but
well-defined set of conditions. Antonym of {heisenbug}; see also {mandelbug},
{schroedinbug}. :boink: /boynk/ [Usenet: variously ascribed to the TV series
"Cheers" "Moonlighting", and "Soap"] 1. v. To have sex with; compare
{bounce}, sense 3. (This is mainstream slang.) In Commonwealth hackish the
variant `bonk' is more common. 2. n. After the original Peter Korn `Boinkon'
{Usenet} parties, used for almost any net social gathering, e.g., Miniboink,
a small boink held by Nancy Gillett in 1988; Minniboink, a Boinkcon in
Minnesota in 1989; Humpdayboinks, Wednesday get-togethers held in the San
Francisco Bay Area. Compare {@-party}. 3. Var of `bonk'; see {bonk/oif}.
:bomb: 1. v. General synonym for {crash} (sense 1) except that it is not used
as a noun; esp. used of software or OS failures. "Don't run Empire with less
than 32K stack, it'll bomb." 2. n.,v. Atari ST and Macintosh equivalents of a
Unix `panic' or Amiga {guru meditation}, in which icons of little
black-powder bombs or mushroom clouds are displayed, indicating that the
system has died. On the Mac, this may be accompanied by a decimal (or
occasionally hexadecimal) number indicating what went wrong, similar to the
Amiga {guru meditation} number. {{MS-DOS}} machines tend to get {locked up}
in this situation. :bondage-and-discipline language: n. A language (such as
{{Pascal}}, {{Ada}}, APL, or Prolog) that, though ostensibly general-purpose,
is designed so as to enforce an author's theory of `right programming' even
though said theory is demonstrably inadequate for systems hacking or even
vanilla general-purpose programming. Often abbreviated `B&D'; thus, one may
speak of things "having the B&D nature". see {{Pascal}}; oppose {languages of
choice}. :bonk/oif: /bonk/, /oyf/ interj. In the U.S. {MUD} community, it has
become traditional to express pique or censure by `bonking' the offending
person. Convention holds that one should acknowledge a bonk by saying `oif!'
and there is a myth to the effect that failing to do so upsets the cosmic
bonk/oif balance, causing much trouble in the universe. Some MUDs have
implemented special commands for bonking and oifing. Note: in parts of the
U.K. `bonk' is a sexually loaded slang term; care is advised in transatlantic
conversations (see {boink}). Commonwealth hackers report a similar convention
involving the `fish/bang' balance. see also {talk mode}. :book titles:: There
is a tradition in hackerdom of informally tagging important textbooks and
standards documents with the dominant color of their covers or with some
other conspicuous feature of the cover. Many of these are described in this
lexicon under their own entries. see {Aluminum Book}, {Blue Book}, {Camel
Book}, {Cinderella Book}, {Devil Book}, {Dragon Book}, {Green Book}, {Orange
Book}, {Purple Book}, {Red Book}, {Silver Book}, {White Book}, {Wizard Book},
{Yellow Book}, and {bible}; see also {rainbow series}. Since about 1983 this
tradition has gotten a boost from the popular O'Reilly and Associates line of
technical books, which usually feature some kind of exotic animal on the
cover. :boot: v.,n. [techspeak; from `by one's bootstraps'] To load and
initialize the operating system on a machine. This usage is no longer jargon
(having passed into techspeak) but has given rise to some derivatives that
are still jargon. The derivative `reboot' implies that the machine hasn't
been down for long, or that the boot is a {bounce} (sense 4) intended to
clear some state of {wedgitude}. This is sometimes used of human thought
processes, as in the following exchange: "You've lost me." "OK, reboot.
Here's the theory...." This term is also found in the variants `cold boot'
(from power-off condition) and `warm boot' (with the CPU and all devices
already powered up, as after a hardware reset or software crash). Another
variant: `soft boot', reinitialization of only part of a system, under
control of other software still running: "If you're running the {mess-dos}
emulator, control-alt-insert will cause a soft-boot of the emulator, while
leaving the rest of the system running." Opposed to this there is `hard
boot', which connotes hostility towards or frustration with the machine being
booted: "I'll have to hard-boot this losing Sun." "I recommend booting it
hard." One often hard-boots by performing a {power cycle}. Historical note:
this term derives from `bootstrap loader', a short program that was read in
from cards or paper tape, or toggled in from the front panel switches. This
program was always very short (great efforts were expended on making it short
in order to minimize the labor and chance of error involved in toggling it
in), but was just smart enough to read in a slightly more complex program
(usually from a card or paper tape reader), to which it handed control; this
program in turn was smart enough to read the application or operating system
from a magnetic tape drive or disk drive. Thus, in successive steps, the
computer `pulled itself up by its bootstraps' to a useful operating state.
Nowadays the bootstrap is usually found in ROM or EPROM, and reads the first
stage in from a fixed location on the disk, called the `boot block'. When
this program gains control, it is powerful enough to load the actual OS and
hand control over to it. :Borg: n. In "Star Trek: The Next Generation" the
Borg is a species of cyborg that ruthlessly seeks to incorporate all sentient
life into itself; their slogan is "You will be assimilated. Resistance is
futile." In hacker parlance, the Borg is usually {Microsoft}, which is
thought to be trying just as ruthlessly to assimilate all computers and the
entire Internet to itself (there is a widely circulated image of Bill Gates
as a Borg). Being forced to use Windows or NT is often referred to as being
"Borged". Interestingly, the {Halloween Documents} reveal that this jargon is
live within Microsoft itself. (Other companies, notably Intel and UUNet, have
also occasionally been equated to the Borg.) see also {Evil Empire},
{Internet Exploiter}. In IETF circles, where direct pressure from Microsoft
is not a daily reality, the Borg is sometimes Cisco. This usage commemmorates
their tendency to pay any price to hire talent away from their competitors.
In fact, at the Spring 1997 IETF, a large number of ex-Cisco employees, all
former members of Routing Geeks, showed up with t-shirts printed with
"Recovering Borg". :borken: adj. (also `borked') Common deliberate typo for
`broken'. :bot: n [common on IRC, MUD and among gamers; from `robot'] 1. An
{IRC} or {MUD} user who is actually a program. On IRC, typically the robot
provides some useful service. Examples are NickServ, which tries to prevent
random users from adopting {nick}s already claimed by others, and MsgServ,
which allows one to send asynchronous messages to be delivered when the
recipient signs on. Also common are `annoybots', such as KissServ, which
perform no useful function except to send cute messages to other people.
Service bots are less common on MUDs; but some others, such as the `Julia'
bot active in 1990-91, have been remarkably impressive Turing-test
experiments, able to pass as human for as long as ten or fifteen minutes of
conversation. 2. An AI-controlled player in a computer game (especially a
first-person shooter such as Quake) which, unlike ordinary monsters, operates
like a human-controlled player, with access to a player's weapons and
abilities. An example can be found at `http://www.telefragged.com/thefatal/'.
3. Term used, though less commonly, for a web {spider}. The file for
controlling spider behavior on your site is officially the "Robots Exclusion
File" and its URL is "http://<somehost>/robots.txt") Note that bots in all
senses were `robots' when the terms first appeared in the early 1990s, but
the shortened form is now habitual. :bot spot: n. [MUD] The user on a MUD
with the longest connect time. Derives from the fact that {bot}s on MUDS
often stay constantly connected and appear at the bottom of the list. :bottom
feeder: n. 1. An Internet user that leeches off ISPs - the sort you can never
provide good enough services for, always complains about the price, no matter
how low it may be, and will bolt off to another service the moment there is
even the slimmest price difference. While most bottom feeders infest free or
almost free services such as AOL, MSN, and Hotmail, too many flock to
whomever happens to be the cheapest regional ISP at the time. Bottom feeders
are often the classic problem user, known for unleashing spam, flamage, and
other breaches of {netiquette}. 2. Syn. for {slopsucker}, derived from the
fishermen's and naturalists' term for finny creatures who subsist on the
primordial ooze. (This sense is older.) :bottom-up implementation: n. Hackish
opposite of the techspeak term `top-down design'. It has been received wisdom
in most programming cultures that it is best to design from higher levels of
abstraction down to lower, specifying sequences of action in increasing
detail until you get to actual code. Hackers often find (especially in
exploratory designs that cannot be closely specified in advance) that it
works best to _build_ things in the opposite order, by writing and testing a
clean set of primitive operations and then knitting them together. Naively
applied, this leads to hacked-together bottom-up implementations; a more
sophisticated response is `middle-out implementation', in which scratch code
within primitives at the mid-level of the system is gradually replaced with a
more polished version of the lowest level at the same time the structure
above the midlevel is being built. :bounce: v. 1. [common; perhaps by analogy
to a bouncing check] An electronic mail message that is undeliverable and
returns an error notification to the sender is said to `bounce'. see also
{bounce message}. 2. [Stanford] To play volleyball. The now-demolished {D. C.
Power Lab} building used by the Stanford AI Lab in the 1970s had a volleyball
court on the front lawn. From 5 P.M. to 7 P.M. was the scheduled maintenance
time for the computer, so every afternoon at 5 would come over the intercom
the cry: "Now hear this: bounce, bounce!", followed by Brian McCune loudly
bouncing a volleyball on the floor outside the offices of known
volleyballers. 3. To engage in sexual intercourse; prob. from the expression
`bouncing the mattress', but influenced by Roo's psychosexually loaded "Try
bouncing me, Tigger!" from the "Winnie-the-Pooh" books. Compare {boink}. 4.
To casually reboot a system in order to clear up a transient problem.
Reported primarily among {VMS} and {Unix} users. 5. [VM/CMS programmers]
_Automatic_ warm-start of a machine after an error. "I logged on this morning
and found it had bounced 7 times during the night" 6. [IBM] To {power cycle}
a peripheral in order to reset it. :bounce message: n. [common] Notification
message returned to sender by a site unable to relay {email} to the intended
{{Internet address}} recipient or the next link in a {bang path} (see
{bounce}, sense 1). Reasons might include a nonexistent or misspelled
username or a {down} relay site. Bounce messages can themselves fail, with
occasionally ugly results; see {sorcerer's apprentice mode} and {software
laser}. The terms `bounce mail' and `barfmail' are also common.
:boustrophedon: n. [from a Greek word for turning like an ox while plowing]
An ancient method of writing using alternate left-to-right and right-to-left
lines. This term is actually philologists' techspeak and typesetters' jargon.
Erudite hackers use it for an optimization performed by some computer
typesetting software and moving-head printers. The adverbial form
`boustrophedonically' is also found (hackers purely love constructions like
this). :box: n. 1. A computer; esp. in the construction `foo box' where foo
is some functional qualifier, like `graphics', or the name of an