 M.I.T. won The Game." The prank had taken weeks of careful planning by
members of MIT's Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity. The device consisted of a
weather balloon, a hydraulic ram powered by Freon gas to lift it out of the
ground, and a vacuum-cleaner motor to inflate it. They made eight separate
expeditions to Harvard Stadium between 1 and 5 AM, in which they located an
unused 110-volt circuit in the stadium, and ran buried wiring from the
stadium circuit to the 40-yard line, where they buried the balloon device.
When the time came to activate the device, two fraternity members had merely
to flip a circuit breaker and push a plug into an outlet. This stunt had all
the earmarks of a perfect hack: surprise, publicity, the ingenious use of
technology, safety, and harmlessness. The use of manual control allowed the
prank to be timed so as not to disrupt the game (it was set off between
plays, so the outcome of the game would not be unduly affected). The
perpetrators had even thoughtfully attached a note to the balloon explaining
that the device was not dangerous and contained no explosives. Harvard
president Derek Bok commented: "They have an awful lot of clever people down
there at MIT, and they did it again." President Paul E. Gray of MIT said,
"There is absolutely no truth to the rumor that I had anything to do with it,
but I wish there were." Such is the way of all good hacks. The Untimely
Demise of Mabel the Monkey (a Cautionary Tale)
*********************************************************** The following,
modulo a couple of inserted commas and capitalization changes for
readability, is the exact text of a famous USENET message. The reader may
wish to review the definitions of PM and MOUNT in the main text before
continuing. Date: Wed 3 Sep 86 16:46:31-EDT From: "Art Evans"
<Evans@TL-20B.ARPA> Subject: Always Mount a Scratch Monkey To:
Risks@CSL.SRI.COM My friend Bud used to be the intercept man at a computer
vendor for calls when an irate customer called. seems one day Bud was sitting
at his desk when the phone rang. Bud: Hello. Voice: YOU KILLED MABEL!! B:
Excuse me? V: YOU KILLED MABEL!! This went on for a couple of minutes and Bud
was getting nowhere, so he decided to alter his approach to the customer. B:
HOW DID I KILL MABEL? V: YOU PM'ED MY MACHINE!! Well, to avoid making a long
story even longer, I will abbreviate what had happened. The customer was a
Biologist at the University of Blah-de-blah, and he had one of our computers
that controlled gas mixtures that Mabel (the monkey) breathed. Now, Mabel was
not your ordinary monkey. The University had spent years teaching Mabel to
swim, and they were studying the effects that different gas mixtures had on
her physiology. It turns out that the repair folks had just gotten a new
Calibrated Power Supply (used to calibrate analog equipment), and at their
first opportunity decided to calibrate the D/A converters in that computer.
This changed some of the gas mixtures and poor Mabel was asphyxiated. Well,
Bud then called the branch manager for the repair folks: Manager: Hello B:
This is Bud, I heard you did a PM at the University of Blah-de-blah. M: Yes,
we really performed a complete PM. What can I do for you? B: Can you swim?
The moral is, of course, that you should always mount a scratch monkey.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ There are several morals here related to risks in use
of computers. Examples include, "If it ain't broken, don't fix it." However,
the cautious philosophical approach implied by "always mount a scratch
monkey" says a lot that we should keep in mind. Art Evans Tartan Labs TV
Typewriters: A Tale Of Hackish Ingenuity
******************************************* Here is a true story about a
glass tty. One day an MIT hacker was in a motorcycle accident and broke his
leg. He had to stay in the hospital quite a while, and got restless because
he couldn't HACK (use the computer). Two of his friends therefore took a
display terminal and a telephone connection for it to the hospital, so that
he could use the computer by telephone from his hospital bed. Now this
happened some years before the spread of home computers, and computer
terminals were not a familiar sight to the average person. When the two
friends got to the hospital, a guard stopped them and asked what they were
carrying. They explained that they wanted to take a computer terminal to
their friend who was a patient. The guard got out his list of things that
patients were permitted to have in their rooms: TV, radio, electric razor,
typewriter, tape player... no computer terminals. Computer terminals weren't
on the list, so they couldn't take it in. Rules are rules. Fair enough, said
the two friends, and they left again. They were frustrated, of course,
because they knew that the terminal was as harmless as a TV or anything else
on the list... which gave them an idea. The next day they returned, and the
same thing happened: a guard stopped them and asked what they were carrying.
They said, "This is a TV typewriter!" The guard was skeptical, so they
plugged it in and demonstrated it. "see? You just type on the keyboard and
what you type shows up on the TV screen." Now the guard didn't stop to think
about how utterly useless a typewriter would be that didn't produce any paper
copies of what you typed; but this was clearly a TV typewriter, no doubt
about it. So he checked his list: "A TV is all right, a typewriter is all
right... okay, take it on in!" Two Stories About "Magic" (As Told By Guy
Steele) ************************************************* When Barbara Steele
was in her fifth month of pregnancy, her doctor sent her to a specialist to
have a sonogram made to determine whether there were twins. She dragged her
husband Guy along to the appointment. It was quite fascinating; as the doctor
moved an instrument along the skin, a small TV screen showed cross-sectional
pictures of the abdomen. Now Barbara and I had both studied computer science
at MIT, and we both saw that some complex computerized image-processing was
involved. Out of curiosity, we asked the doctor how it was done, hoping to
learn some details about the mathematics involved. The doctor, not knowing
our educational background, simply said, "The probe sends out sound waves,
which bounce off the internal organs. A microphone picks up the echoes, like
radar, and send the signals to a computer---and the computer makes a
picture." Thanks a lot! Now a hacker would have said, "... and the computer
*magically* makes a picture," implicitly acknowledging that he has glossed
over an extremely complicated process. Some years ago I was snooping around
in the cabinets that housed the MIT AI Lab's PDP-10, and noticed a little
switch glued to the frame of one cabinet. It was obviously a homebrew job,
added by one of the lab's hardware hackers (no one know who). You don't touch
an unknown switch on a computer without knowing what it does, because you
might crash the computer. The switch was labeled in a most unhelpful way. It
had two positions, and scrawled in pencil on the metal switch body were the
words "magic" and "more magic". The switch was in the "more magic" position.
I called another hacker over to look at it. He had never seen the switch
before either. Closer examination revealed that the switch only had one wire
running to it! The other end of the wire did disappear into the maze of wires
inside the computer, but it's a basic fact of electricity that a switch can't
do anything unless there are two wires connected to it. This switch had a
wire connected on one side and no wire on its other side. It was clear that
this switch was someone's idea of a silly joke. Convinced by our reasoning
that the switch was inoperative, we flipped it. The computer instantly
crashed. Imagine our utter astonishment. We wrote it off as coincidence, but
nevertheless restored the switch to the "more magic" position before reviving
the computer. A year later, I told this story to yet another hacker, David
Moon as I recall. He clearly doubted my sanity, or suspected me of a
supernatural belief in the power of this switch, or perhaps thought I was
fooling him with a bogus saga. To prove it to him, I showed him the very
switch, still glued to the cabinet frame with only one wire connected to it,
still in the "more magic" position. We scrutinized the switch and its lone
connection, and found that the other end of the wire, though connected to the
computer wiring, was connected to a ground pin. That clearly made the switch
doubly useless: not only was it electrically nonoperative, but it was
connected to a place that couldn't affect anything anyway. So we flipped the
switch. The computer promptly crashed. This time we ran for Richard
Greenblatt, a long-time MIT hacker, who was close at hand. He had never
noticed the switch before, either. He inspected it, concluded it was useless,
got some diagonal cutters and diked it out. We then revived the computer and
it ran fine ever since. We still don't know how the switch crashed the
machine. There is a theory that some circuit near the ground pin was
marginal, and flipping the switch changed the electrical capacitance enough
to upset the circuit as millionth-of-a-second pulses went through it. But
we'll never know for sure; all we can really say is that the switch was
MAGIC. I still have that switch in my basement. Maybe I'm silly, but I
usually keep it set on "more magic." A Selection of AI Koans
*********************** These are perhaps the funniest examples of a genre of
jokes told at the MIT AI lab about various noted computer scientists and
hackers. * * * A novice was trying to fix a broken Lisp machine by turning
the power off and on. Knight, seeing what the student was doing spoke
sternly: "You can not fix a machine by just power-cycling it with no
understanding of what is going wrong." Knight turned the machine off and on.
The machine worked. [Ed note: This is much funnier if you know that Tom
Knight was one of the Lisp machine's principal designers] * * * One day a
student came to Moon and said, "I understand how to make a better garbage
collector. We must keep a reference count of the pointers to each cons." Moon
patiently told the student the following story: "One day a student came to
Moon and said, "I understand how to make a better garbage collector... [Ed.
note: The point here is technical. Pure reference-count garbage collectors
have problems with `pathological' structures that point to themselves.] * * *
In the days when Sussman was a novice Minsky once came to him as he sat
hacking at the PDP-6. "What are you doing?", asked Minsky. "I am training a
randomly wired neural net to play Tic-Tac-Toe", Sussman replied. "Why is the
net wired randomly?", asked Minsky. "I do not want it to have any
preconceptions of how to play", Sussman said. Minsky then shut his eyes. "Why
do you close your eyes?", Sussman asked his teacher. "So that the room will
be empty." At that moment, Sussman was enlightened. * * * A disciple of
another sect once came to Drescher as he was eating his morning meal. "I
would like to give you this personality test", said the outsider, "because I
want you to be happy." Drescher took the paper that was offered him and put
it into the toaster, saying: "I wish the toaster to be happy, too." Appendix
B: The High Moby -- Obsolescent Terms From Jargon-1
************************************************************ The following
terms appeared in the main listing of the original Jargon File, but have been
rendered obsolescent by the passage of time, the march of technology, the
death of the DEC PDP-10, and the May 1990 shutdown of the ITS machines. They
are collected here for possible historical interest. AOS /aus/ (East coast),
/ay-ahs/ (West coast) [based on a PDP-10 increment instruction] v. 1. To
increase the amount of something. "Aos the campfire." Usage: considered
silly, and now obsolescent. see SOS. Now largely supplanted by BUMP. 2. A
crufty MULTICS-derived OS supported at one time by Data General. Sense #1 was
the name of a PDP-10 instruction that takes any memory location in the
computer and adds one to it; AOS means "Add One and do not Skip". Why, you
may ask, does the "S" stand for "do not Skip" rather than for "Skip"? Ah,
here is a beloved piece of PDP-10 folklore. There are eight such
instructions: AOSE adds one and then skips the next instruction if the result
is Equal to zero; AOSG adds one and then skips if the result is Greater than
zero; AOSN adds one and then skips if the result is Not zero; AOSA adds one
and then skips Always; and so on. Just plain AOS doesn't say when to skip, so
it never skips. For similar reasons, AOJ means "Add One and do not Jump".
Even more bizarre, SKIP means "do not SKIP"! If you want to skip the next
instruction, you must say "SKIPA". Likewise, JUMP means "do not JUMP" (see
JRST below).