 CHAOS System". 3. n. Algebraic Operating System, in reference to those
calculators which use infix instead of postfix (reverse Polish) notation. 4.
A {BSD}-like operating system for the IBM RT. Historical note: AOS in sense 1
was the name of a {PDP-10} instruction that took any memory location in the
computer and added 1 to it; AOS meant `Add One and do not Skip'. Why, you may
ask, does the `S' stand for `do not Skip' rather than for `Skip'? Ah, here
was a beloved piece of PDP-10 folklore. There were eight such instructions:
AOSE added 1 and then skipped the next instruction if the result was Equal to
zero; AOSG added 1 and then skipped if the result was Greater than 0; AOSN
added 1 and then skipped if the result was Not 0; AOSA added 1 and then
skipped Always; and so on. Just plain AOS didn't say when to skip, so it
never skipped. For similar reasons, AOJ meant `Add One and do not Jump'. Even
more bizarre, SKIP meant `do not SKIP'! If you wanted to skip the next
instruction, you had to say `SKIPA'. Likewise, JUMP meant `do not JUMP'; the
unconditional form was JUMPA. However, hackers never did this. By some quirk
of the 10's design, the {JRST} (Jump and ReSTore flag with no flag specified)
was actually faster and so was invariably used. Such were the perverse
mysteries of assembler programming. :app: /ap/ n. Short for `application
program', as opposed to a systems program. Apps are what systems vendors are
forever chasing developers to create for their environments so they can sell
more boxes. Hackers tend not to think of the things they themselves run as
apps; thus, in hacker parlance the term excludes compilers, program editors,
games, and messaging systems, though a user would consider all those to be
apps. (Broadly, an app is often a self-contained environment for performing
some well-defined task such as `word processing'; hackers tend to prefer more
general-purpose tools.) see {killer app}; oppose {tool}, {operating system}.
:arena: [Unix] n. The area of memory attached to a process by `brk(2)' and
`sbrk(2)' and used by `malloc(3)' as dynamic storage. So named from a
`malloc: corrupt arena' message emitted when some early versions detected an
impossible value in the free block list. see {overrun screw}, {aliasing bug},
{memory leak}, {memory smash}, {smash the stack}. :arg: /arg/ n. Abbreviation
for `argument' (to a function), used so often as to have become a new word
(like `piano' from `pianoforte'). "The sine function takes 1 arg, but the
arc-tangent function can take either 1 or 2 args." Compare {param}, {parm},
{var}. :ARMM: n. [acronym, `Automated Retroactive Minimal Moderation'] A
Usenet {cancelbot} created by Dick Depew of Munroe Falls, Ohio. ARMM was
intended to automatically cancel posts from anonymous-posting sites.
Unfortunately, the robot's recognizer for anonymous postings triggered on its
own automatically-generated control messages! Transformed by this stroke of
programming ineptitude into a monster of Frankensteinian proportions, it
broke loose on the night of March 31, 1993 and proceeded to {spam}
news.admin.policy with a recursive explosion of over 200 messages. ARMM's bug
produced a recursive {cascade} of messages each of which mechanically added
text to the ID and Subject and some other headers of its parent. This
produced a flood of messages in which each header took up several screens and
each message ID and subject line got longer and longer and longer. Reactions
varied from amusement to outrage. The pathological messages crashed at least
one mail system, and upset people paying line charges for their Usenet feeds.
One poster described the ARMM debacle as "instant Usenet history" (also
establishing the term {despew}), and it has since been widely cited as a
cautionary example of the havoc the combination of good intentions and
incompetence can wreak on a network. Compare {Great Worm}; {sorcerer's
apprentice mode}. see also {software laser}, {network meltdown}.
:armor-plated: n. Syn. for {bulletproof}. :asbestos: adj. Used as a modifier
to anything intended to protect one from {flame}s; also in other highly
{flame}-suggestive usages. see, for example, {asbestos longjohns} and
{asbestos cork award}. :asbestos cork award: n. Once, long ago at MIT, there
was a {flamer} so consistently obnoxious that another hacker designed, had
made, and distributed posters announcing that said flamer had been nominated
for the `asbestos cork award'. (Any reader in doubt as to the intended
application of the cork should consult the etymology under {flame}.) Since
then, it is agreed that only a select few have risen to the heights of
bombast required to earn this dubious dignity -- but there is no agreement on
_which_ few. :asbestos longjohns: n. Notional garments donned by {Usenet}
posters just before emitting a remark they expect will elicit {flamage}. This
is the most common of the {asbestos} coinages. Also `asbestos underwear',
`asbestos overcoat', etc. :ASCII:: /as'kee/ n. [acronym: American Standard
Code for Information Interchange] The predominant character set encoding of
present-day computers. The modern version uses 7 bits for each character,
whereas most earlier codes (including an early version of