 ASCII picture of an arrow pointing at a numeric scale. Compare {bogometer}.
:tron: v. [NRL, CMU; prob. fr. the movie "Tron"] To become inaccessible
except via email or `talk(1)', especially when one is normally available via
telephone or in person. Frequently used in the past tense, as in: "Ran seems
to have tronned on us this week" or "Gee, Ran, glad you were able to un-tron
yourself". One may also speak of `tron mode'; compare {spod}. Note that many
dialects of BASIC have a TRON/TROFF command pair that enables/disables line
number tracing; this has no obvious relationship to the slang usage.
:true-hacker: n. [analogy with `trufan' from SF fandom] One who exemplifies
the primary values of hacker culture, esp. competence and helpfulness to
other hackers. A high compliment. "He spent 6 hours helping me bring up UUCP
and netnews on my FOOBAR 4000 last week -- manifestly the act of a
true-hacker." Compare {demigod}, oppose {munchkin}. :tty: /T-T-Y/, /tit'ee/
n. The latter pronunciation was primarily ITS, but some Unix people say it
this way as well; this pronunciation is _not_ considered to have sexual
undertones. 1. A terminal of the teletype variety, characterized by a noisy
mechanical printer, a very limited character set, and poor print quality.
Usage: antiquated (like the TTYs themselves). see also {bit-paired keyboard}.
2. [especially Unix] Any terminal at all; sometimes used to refer to the
particular terminal controlling a given job. 3. [Unix] Any serial port,
whether or not the device connected to it is a terminal; so called because
under Unix such devices have names of the form tty*. Ambiguity between senses
2 and