 BAD: /B-A-D/ [IBM: acronym, `Broken As Designed'] adj. Said of a program
that is {bogus} because of bad design and misfeatures rather than because of
bugginess. see {working as designed}. Bad Thing: [from the 1930 Sellar &
Yeatman parody `1066 And All That'] n. Something that can't possibly result
in improvement of the subject. This term is always capitalized, as in
"Replacing all of the 9600-baud modems with bicycle couriers would be a Bad
Thing". Oppose {Good Thing}. British correspondents confirm that {Bad Thing}
and {Good Thing} (and prob. therefore {Right Thing} and {Wrong Thing}) come
from the book referenced in the etymology, which discusses rulers who were
Good Kings but Bad Things. This has apparently created a mainstream idiom on
the British side of the pond. bag on the side: n. An extension to an
established hack that is supposed to add some functionality to the original.
Usually derogatory, implying that the original was being overextended and
should have been thrown away, and the new product is ugly, inelegant, or
bloated. Also v. phrase, `to hang a bag on the side [of]'. "C++? That's just
a bag on the side of C ...." "They want me to hang a bag on the side of the
accounting system." bagbiter: /bag'bi:t-*r/ n. 1. Something, such as a
program or a computer, that fails to work, or works in a remarkably clumsy
manner. "This text editor won't let me make a file with a line longer than 80
characters! What a bagbiter!" 2. A person who has caused you some trouble,
inadvertently or otherwise, typically by failing to program the computer
properly. Synonyms: {loser}, {cretin}, {chomper}. 3. adj. `bagbiting' Having
the quality of a bagbiter. "This bagbiting system won't let me compute the
factorial of a negative number." Compare {losing}, {cretinous},
{bletcherous}, `barfucious' (under {barfulous}) and `chomping' (under
{chomp}). 4. `bite the bag' vi. To fail in some manner. "The computer keeps
crashing every 5 minutes." "Yes, the disk controller is really biting the
bag." The original loading of these terms was almost undoubtedly obscene,
possibly referring to the scrotum, but in their current usage they have
become almost completely sanitized. A program called Lexiphage on the old MIT
AI PDP-10 would draw on a selected victim's bitmapped terminal the words "THE
BAG" in ornate letters, and then a pair of jaws biting pieces of it off. This
is the first and to date only known example of a program *intended* to be a
bagbiter. bamf: /bamf/ 1. [from old X-Men comics] interj. Notional sound made
by a person or object teleporting in or out of the hearer's vicinity. Often
used in {virtual reality} (esp. {MUD}) electronic {fora} when a character
wishes to make a dramatic entrance or exit. 2. The sound of magical
transformation, used in virtual reality {fora} like sense 1. 3. [from `Don
Washington's Survival Guide'] n. Acronym for `Bad-Ass Mother Fucker', used to
refer to one of the handful of nastiest monsters on an LPMUD or other similar
MUD. banana label: n. The labels often used on the sides of {macrotape}
reels, so called because they are shaped roughly like blunt-ended bananas.
This term, like macrotapes themselves, is still current but visibly headed
for obsolescence. banana problem: n. [from the story of the little girl who
said "I know how to spell `banana', but I don't know when to stop"]. Not
knowing where or when to bring a production to a close (compare {fencepost
error}). One may say `there is a banana problem' of an algorithm with poorly
defined or incorrect termination conditions, or in discussing the evolution
of a design that may be succumbing to featuritis (see also {creeping
elegance}, {creeping featuritis}). see item 176 under {HAKMEM}, which
describes a banana problem in a {Dissociated Press} implementation.
bandwidth: n. 1. Used by hackers in a generalization of its technical meaning
as the volume of information per unit time that a computer, person, or
transmission medium can handle. "Those are amazing graphics, but I missed
some of the detail --- not enough bandwidth, I guess." Compare
{low-bandwidth}. 2. Attention span. 3. On {USENET}, a measure of network
capacity that is often wasted by people complaining about how items posted by
others are a waste of bandwidth. bang: 1. n. Common spoken name for `!'
(ASCII 0100001), especially when used in pronouncing a {bang path} in spoken
hackish. In {elder days} this was considered a CMUish usage, with MIT and
Stanford hackers preferring {excl} or {shriek}; but the spread of UNIX has
carried `bang' with it (esp. via the term {bang path}) and it is now
certainly the most common spoken name for `!'. Note that it is used
exclusively for non-emphatic written `!'; one would not say "Congratulations
bang" (except possibly for humorous purposes), but if one wanted to specify
the exact characters `foo!' one would speak "Eff oh oh bang". see {shriek},
{{ASCII}}. 2. interj. An exclamation signifying roughly "I have achieved
enlightenment!", or "The dynamite has cleared out my brain!" Often used to
acknowledge that one has perpetrated a {thinko} immediately after one has
been called on it. bang on: vt. To stress-test a piece of hardware or
software: "I banged on the new version of the simulator all day yesterday and
it didn't crash once. I guess it is ready to release." The term {pound on} is
synonymous. bang path: n. An old-style UUCP electronic-mail address
specifying hops to get from some assumed-reachable location to the addressee,
so called because each {hop} is signified by a {bang} sign. Thus, for
example, the path ...!bigsite!foovax!barbox!me directs people to route their
mail to machine bigsite (presumably a well-known location accessible to
everybody) and from there through the machine foovax to the account of user
me on barbox. In the bad old days of not so long ago, before autorouting
mailers became commonplace, people often published compound bang addresses
using the { } convention (see {glob}) to give paths from *several* big
machines, in the hopes that one's correspondent might be able to get mail to
one of them reliably (example: ...!{seismo, ut-sally,
ihnp4}!rice!beta!gamma!me). Bang paths of 8 to 10 hops were not uncommon in
1981. Late-night dial-up UUCP links would cause week-long transmission times.
Bang paths were often selected by both transmission time and reliability, as
messages would often get lost. see {{Internet address}}, {network, the}, and
{sitename}. banner: n. 1. The title page added to printouts by most print
spoolers (see {spool}). Typically includes user or account ID information in
very large character-graphics capitals. Also called a `burst page', because
it indicates where to burst (tear apart) fanfold paper to separate one user's
printout from the next. 2. A similar printout generated (typically on
multiple pages of fan-fold paper) from user-specified text, e.g., by a
program such as UNIX's `banner({1,6})'. 3. On interactive software, a first
screen containing a logo and/or author credits and/or a copyright notice.
bar: /bar/ n. 1. The second metasyntactic variable, after {foo} and before
{baz}. "Suppose we have two functions: FOO and BAR. FOO calls BAR...." 2.
Often appended to {foo} to produce {foobar}. bare metal: n. 1. New computer
hardware, unadorned with such snares and delusions as an {operating system},
an {HLL}, or even assembler. Commonly used in the phrase `programming on the
bare metal', which refers to the arduous work of {bit bashing} needed to
create these basic tools for a new machine. Real bare-metal programming
involves things like building boot proms and BIOS chips, implementing basic
monitors used to test device drivers, and writing the assemblers that will be
used to write the compiler back ends that will give the new machine a real
development environment. 2. `Programming on the bare metal' is also used to
describe a style of {hand-hacking} that relies on bit-level peculiarities of
a particular hardware design, esp. tricks for speed and space optimization
that rely on crocks such as overlapping instructions (or, as in the famous
case described in appendix A, interleaving of opcodes on a magnetic drum to
minimize fetch delays due to the device's rotational latency). This sort of
thing has become less common as the relative costs of programming time and
machine resources have changed, but is still found in heavily constrained
environments such as industrial embedded systems. see {real programmer}. In
the world of personal computing, bare metal programming (especially in sense
1 but sometimes also in sense 2) is often considered a {Good Thing}, or at
least a necessary thing (because these machines have often been sufficiently
slow and poorly designed to make it necessary; see {ill-behaved}). There, the
term usually refers to bypassing the BIOS or OS interface and writing the
application to directly access device registers and machine addresses. "To
get 19.2 kilobaud on the serial port, you need to get down to the bare
metal." People who can do this sort of thing are held in high regard. barf:
/barf/ [from mainstream slang meaning `vomit'] 1. interj. Term of disgust.
This is the closest hackish equivalent of the Val\-speak "gag me with a
spoon". (Like, euwww!) see {bletch}. 2. vi. To say "Barf!" or emit some
similar expression of disgust. "I showed him my latest hack and he barfed"
means only that he complained about it, not that he literally vomited. 3. vi.
To fail to work because of unacceptable input. May mean to give an error
message. Examples: "The division operation barfs if you try to divide by 0."
(That is, the division operation checks for an attempt to divide by zero, and
if one is encountered it causes the operation to fail in some unspecified,
but generally obvious, manner.) "The text editor barfs if you try to read in
a new file before writing out the old one." see {choke}, {gag}. In
Commonwealth hackish, `barf' is generally replaced by `puke' or `vom'. {barf}
is sometimes also used as a metasyntactic variable, like {foo} or {bar}.
barfulation: /bar`fyoo-lay'sh*n/ interj. Variation of {barf} used around the
Stanford area. An exclamation, expressing disgust. On seeing some
particularly bad code one might exclaim, "Barfulation! Who wrote this, Quux?"
barfulous: /bar'fyoo-l*s/ adj. (alt. `barfucious', /bar-fyoo-sh*s/) Said of
something that would make anyone barf, if only for esthetic reasons. baroque:
adj. Feature-encrusted; complex; gaudy; verging on excessive. Said of
hardware or (esp.) software designs, this has many of the connotations of
{elephantine} or {monstrosity} but is less extreme and not pejorative in
itself. "Metafont even has features to introduce random variations to its
letterform output. Now *that* is baroque!" see also {rococo}. BartleMUD:
/bar'tl-muhd/ n. Any of the MUDs derived from the original MUD game by
Richard Bartle (see {MUD}). BartleMUDs are noted for their (usually slightly
offbeat) humor, dry but friendly syntax, and lack of adjectives in object
descriptions, so a player is likely to come across `brand172', for instance
(see {brand brand brand}). Some MUDders intensely dislike Bartle and this
term, and prefer to speak of `MUD-1'.