 BASIC: n. A programming language, originally designed for Dartmouth's
experimental timesharing system in the early 1960s, which has since become
the leading cause of brain-damage in proto-hackers. This is another case
(like {Pascal}) of the bad things that happen when a language deliberately
designed as an educational toy gets taken too seriously. A novice can write
short BASIC programs (on the order of 10--20 lines) very easily; writing
anything longer is (a) very painful, and (b) encourages bad habits that will
bite him/her later if he/she tries to hack in a real language. This wouldn't
be so bad if historical accidents hadn't made BASIC so common on low-end
micros. As it is, it ruins thousands of potential wizards a year. batch: adj.
1. Non-interactive. Hackers use this somewhat more loosely than the
traditional technical definitions justify; in particular, switches on a
normally interactive program that prepare it to receive non-interactive
command input are often referred to as `batch mode' switches. A `batch file'
is a series of instructions written to be handed to an interactive program
running in batch mode. 2. Performance of dreary tasks all at one sitting. "I
finally sat down in batch mode and wrote out checks for all those bills; I
guess they'll turn the electricity back on next week..." 3. Accumulation of a
number of small tasks that can be lumped together for greater efficiency.
"I'm batching up those letters to send sometime" "I'm batching up bottles to
take to the recycling center." bathtub curve: n. Common term for the curve
(resembling an end-to-end section of one of those claw-footed antique
bathtubs) that describes the expected failure rate of electronics with time:
initially high, dropping to near 0 for most of the system's lifetime, then
rising again as it `tires out'. see also {burn-in period}, {infant
mortality}. baud: /bawd/ [simplified from its technical meaning] n. Bits per
second. Hence kilobaud or Kbaud, thousands of bits per second. The technical
meaning is `level transitions per second'; this coincides with bps only for
two-level modulation with no framing or stop bits. Most hackers are aware of
these nuances but blithely ignore them. baud barf: /bawd barf/ n. The garbage
one gets on the monitor when using a modem connection with some protocol
setting (esp. line speed) incorrect, or when someone picks up a voice
extension on the same line, or when really bad line noise disrupts the
connection. Baud barf is not completely {random}, by the way; hackers with a
lot of serial-line experience can usually tell whether the device at the
other end is expecting a higher or lower speed than the terminal is set to.
*Really* experienced ones can identify particular speeds. baz: /baz/
[Stanford: corruption of {bar}] n. 1. The third metasyntactic variable, after
{foo} and {bar} and before {quux} (or, occasionally, `qux'; or local
idiosyncracies like `rag', `zowie', etc.). "Suppose we have three functions:
FOO, BAR, and BAZ. FOO calls BAR, which calls BAZ...." 2. interj. A term of
mild annoyance. In this usage the term is often drawn out for 2 or 3 seconds,
producing an effect not unlike the bleating of a sheep; /baaaaaaz/. 3.
Occasionally appended to {foo} to produce `foobaz'. bboard: /bee'bord/
[contraction of `bulletin board'] n. 1. Any electronic bulletin board; esp.
used of {BBS} systems running on personal micros, less frequently of a USENET
{newsgroup} (in fact, use of the term for a newsgroup generally marks one
either as a {newbie} fresh in from the BBS world or as a real old-timer
predating USENET). 2. At CMU and other colleges with similar facilities,
refers to campus-wide electronic bulletin boards. 3. The term `physical
bboard' is sometimes used to refer to a old-fashioned, non-electronic cork
memo board. At CMU, it refers to a particular one outside the CS Lounge. In
either of senses 1 or 2, the term is usually prefixed by the name of the
intended board (`the Moonlight Casino bboard' or `market bboard'); however,
if the context is clear, the better-read bboards may be referred to by name
alone, as in (at CMU) "Don't post for-sale ads on general".