 BBS: [acronym, Bulletin Board System] n. An electronic bulletin board
system; that is, a message database where people can log in and leave
broadcast messages for others grouped (typically) into topic areas. Thousands
of local BBS systems are in operation throughout the U.S., typically run by
amateurs for fun out of their homes on MS-DOS boxes with a single modem line
each. Fans of USENET and Internet or the big commercial timesharing bboards
like CompuServe or GEnie tend to consider local BBSes the `low-rent district'
of the hacker culture, but they serve a valuable function by knitting
together lots of hackers and users in the personal-micro world who would
otherwise be unable to exchange code at all. beam: [from Star Trek Classic's
"Beam me up, Scotty!"] vt. To transfer {softcopy} of a file electronically;
most often in combining forms such as `beam me a copy' or `beam that over to
his site'. Compare {blast}, {snarf}, {BLT}. beep: n.,v. Syn. {feep}. This
term seems to be preferred among micro hobbyists. beige toaster: n. A
Macintosh. see {toaster}; compare {Macintrash}, {maggotbox}. bells and
whistles: [by analogy with steam calliopes] n. Features added to a program or
system to make it more {flavorful} from a hacker's point of view, without
necessarily adding to its utility for its primary function. Distinguished
from {chrome}, which is intended to attract users. "Now that we've got the
basic program working, let's go back and add some bells and whistles."
However, no one seems to know what distinguishes a bell from a whistle.
bells, whistles, and gongs: n. A standard elaborated form of {bells and
whistles}; typically said with a pronounced and ironic accent on the `gongs'.
benchmark: [techspeak] n. An inaccurate measure of computer performance. "In
the computer industry, there are three kinds of lies: lies, damn lies, and
benchmarks." Well-known ones include Whetstone, Dhrystone, the Gabriel LISP
benchmarks (see {gabriel}), Rhealstone (see {h}) and LINPACK. see also
{machoflops}, {MIPS}. Berkeley Quality Software: adj. (often abbreviated
`BQS') Term used in a pejorative sense to refer to software which was
apparently created by rather spaced-out hackers late at night to solve some
unique problem. It usually has nonexistent, incomplete, or incorrect
documentation, has been tested on at least two examples, and usually core
dumps when anyone else attempts to use it. This term was frequently applied
to early versions of the `dbx(1)' debugger. see also {Berzerkeley}. berklix:
/ber'kliks/ n.,adj. [contraction of `Berkeley UNIX'] see {BSD}. Not used at
Berkeley itself. May be more common among {suit}s attempting to sound like
cognoscenti than among hackers, who usually just say `BSD'. berserking: vi. A
{MUD} term meaning to gain points *only* by killing other players and mobiles
(non-player characters). Hence a Berserker-Wizard is a player character that
has achieved enough points to become a wizard, but only by killing other
characters. Berserking is sometimes frowned upon because of its inherently
antisocial nature, but some MUDs have a `berserker mode' in which a player
becomes *permanently* berserk, can never flee out of a fight, cannot use
magic, gets no score for treasure, but *does* get double kill points.
"Berserker wizards can seriously damage your elf!" Berzerkeley: [from
"berserk"] /b@r-zer'klee/ [from the name of a now-deceased record label] n.
Humorous distortion of `Berkeley' used esp. to refer to the practices or
products of the {BSD} UNIX hackers. see {software bloat}, {Missed'em-five},
{Berkeley Quality Software}. beta: /be't@/, /bay't@/ or (Commonwealth)
/bee't@/ n. 1. In the {Real World}, software often goes through two stages of
testing: Alpha (in-house) and Beta (out-house?). Software is said to be `in
beta'. 2. Anything that is new and experimental is in beta. "His girlfriend
is in beta." 3. Beta software is notoriously buggy, so `in beta' connotes
flakiness. Historical note: More formally, to beta-test is to test a
pre-release (potentially unreliable) version of a piece of software by making
it available to selected customers and users. This term derives from early
1960s terminology for product cycle checkpoints, first used at IBM but later
standard throughout the industry. `Alpha Test' was the unit, module, or
component test phase; `Beta Test' was initial system test. These themselves
came from earlier A- and B-tests for hardware. The A-test was a feasibility
and manufacturability evaluation done before any commitment to design and
development. The B-test was a demonstration that the engineering model
functioned as specified. The C-test (corresponding to today's beta) was the
B-test performed on early samples of the production design.