 :bit bucket: n. [very common] 1. The universal data sink (originally, the
mythical receptacle used to catch bits when they fall off the end of a
register during a shift instruction). Discarded, lost, or destroyed data is
said to have gone to the bit bucket. On {Unix}, often used for {/dev/null}.
Sometimes amplified as the Great Bit Bucket in the Sky. 2. The place where
all lost mail and news messages eventually go. The selection is performed
according to {Finagle's Law}; important mail is much more likely to end up in
the bit bucket than junk mail, which has an almost 100% probability of
getting delivered. Routing to the bit bucket is automatically performed by
mail-transfer agents, news systems, and the lower layers of the network. 3.
The ideal location for all unwanted mail responses: "Flames about this
article to the bit bucket." Such a request is guaranteed to overflow one's
mailbox with flames. 4. Excuse for all mail that has not been sent. "I mailed
you those figures last week; they must have landed in the bit bucket."
Compare {black hole}. This term is used purely in jest. It is based on the
fanciful notion that bits are objects that are not destroyed but only
misplaced. This appears to have been a mutation of an earlier term `bit box',
about which the same legend was current; old-time hackers also report that
trainees used to be told that when the CPU stored bits into memory it was
actually pulling them "out of the bit box". see also {chad box}. Another
variant of this legend has it that, as a consequence of the "parity
preservation law", the number of 1 bits that go to the bit bucket must equal
the number of 0 bits. Any imbalance results in bits filling up the bit
bucket. A qualified computer technician can empty a full bit bucket as part
of scheduled maintenance. The source for all these meanings, is,
historically, the fact that the {chad box} on a paper-tape punch was
sometimes called a bit bucket. [75-10-04.png] A literal {bit bucket}. (The
next cartoon in the Crunchly saga is 76-02-14. The previous one is 75-10-04.)