 :bit-paired keyboard: /n./ obs. (alt. `bit-shift keyboard') A non-standard
keyboard layout that seems to have originated with the Teletype ASR-33 and
remained common for several years on early computer equipment. The ASR-33 was
a mechanical device (see {EOU}), so the only way to generate the character
codes from keystrokes was by some physical linkage. The design of the ASR-33
assigned each character key a basic pattern that could be modified by
flipping bits if the SHIFT or the CTRL key was pressed. In order to avoid
making the thing more of a Rube Goldberg kluge than it already was, the
design had to group characters that shared the same basic bit pattern on one
key. Looking at the ASCII chart, we find: high low bits bits 0000 0001 0010
0011 0100 0101 0110 0111 1000 1001 010 ! " # $ % & ' ( ) 011 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 This is why the characters !"#$%&'() appear where they do on a Teletype
(thankfully, they didn't use shift-0 for space). This was *not* the weirdest
variant of the {QWERTY} layout widely seen, by the way; that prize should
probably go to one of several (differing) arrangements on IBM's even clunkier
026 and 029 card punches. When electronic terminals became popular, in the
early 1970s, there was no agreement in the industry over how the keyboards
should be laid out. Some vendors opted to emulate the Teletype keyboard,
while others used the flexibility of electronic circuitry to make their
product look like an office typewriter. These alternatives became known as
`bit-paired' and `typewriter-paired' keyboards. To a hacker, the bit-paired
keyboard seemed far more logical -- and because most hackers in those days
had never learned to touch-type, there was little pressure from the
pioneering users to adapt keyboards to the typewriter standard. The doom of
the bit-paired keyboard was the large-scale introduction of the computer
terminal into the normal office environment, where out-and-out technophobes
were expected to use the equipment. The `typewriter-paired' standard became
universal, `bit-paired' hardware was quickly junked or relegated to dusty
corners, and both terms passed into disuse.