 BITNET: /bit'net/ [acronym: Because It's Time NETwork] n. Everybody's least
favorite piece of the network (see {network, the}). The BITNET hosts are a
collection of IBM dinosaurs and VAXen (the latter with lobotomized comm
hardware) that communicate using 80-character {{EBCDIC}} card images (see
{eighty-column mind}); thus, they tend to mangle the headers and text of
third-party traffic from the rest of the ASCII/RFC-822 world with annoying
regularity. BITNET is also notorious as the apparent home of {BIFF}. bits:
n.pl. 1. Information. Examples: "I need some bits about file formats." ("I
need to know about file formats.") Compare {core dump}, sense 4. 2.
Machine-readable representation of a document, specifically as contrasted
with paper: "I have only a photocopy of the Jargon File; does anyone know
where I can get the bits?". see {softcopy}, {source of all good bits} See
also {bit}. bitty box: /bit'ee boks/ n. 1. A computer sufficiently small,
primitive, or incapable as to cause a hacker acute claustrophobia at the
thought of developing software for it. Especially used of small, obsolescent,
single-tasking-only personal machines such as the Atari 800, Osborne,
Sinclair, VIC-20, TRS-80, or IBM PC. 2. [Pejorative] More generally, the
opposite of `real computer' (see {Get a real computer!}). see also
{mess-dos}, {toaster}, and {toy}. bixie: /bik'see/ n. Variant {emoticon}s
used on BIX (the Byte Information eXchange). The {smiley} bixie is <@_@>,
apparently intending to represent two cartoon eyes and a mouth. A few others
have been reported. black art: n. A collection of arcane, unpublished, and
(by implication) mostly ad-hoc techniques developed for a particular
application or systems area (compare {black magic}). VLSI design and compiler
code optimization were (in their beginnings) considered classic examples of
black art; as theory developed they became {deep magic}, and once standard
textbooks had been written, became merely {heavy wizardry}. The huge
proliferation of formal and informal channels for spreading around new
computer-related technologies during the last twenty years has made both the
term `black art' and what it describes less common than formerly. see also
{voodoo programming}. black hole: n. When a piece of email or netnews
disappears mysteriously between its origin and destination sites (that is,
without returning a {bounce message}) it is commonly said to have `fallen
into a black hole'. "I think there's a black hole at foovax!" conveys
suspicion that site foovax has been dropping a lot of stuff on the floor
lately (see {drop on the floor}). The implied metaphor of email as
interstellar travel is interesting in itself. Compare {bit bucket}. black
magic: n. A technique that works, though nobody really understands why. More
obscure than {voodoo programming}, which may be done by cookbook. Compare
also {black art}, {deep magic}, and {magic number} (sense 2). blast: 1.
vt.,n. Synonym for {BLT}, used esp. for large data sends over a network or
comm line. Opposite of {snarf}. Usage: uncommon. The variant `blat' has been
reported. 2. vt. [HP/Apollo] Synonymous with {nuke} (sense 3). Sometimes the
message `Unable to kill all processes. Blast them (y/n)?' would appear in the
command window upon logout. blat: n. 1. Syn. {blast}, sense 1. 2. see {thud}.
bletch: /blech/ [from Yiddish/German `brechen', to vomit, poss. via
comic-strip exclamation `blech'] interj. Term of disgust. Often used in "Ugh,
bletch". Compare {barf}. bletcherous: /blech'*-r*s/ adj. Disgusting in design
or function; esthetically unappealing. This word is seldom used of people.
"This keyboard is bletcherous!" (Perhaps the keys don't work very well, or
are misplaced.) see {losing}, {cretinous}, {bagbiter}, {bogus}, and {random}.
The term {bletcherous} applies to the esthetics of the thing so described;
similarly for {cretinous}. By contrast, something that is `losing' or
`bagbiting' may be failing to meet objective criteria. see also {bogus} and
{random}, which have richer and wider shades of meaning than any of the
above. blinkenlights: /blink'*n-li:tz/ n. Front-panel diagnostic lights on a
computer, esp. a {dinosaur}. Derives from the last word of the famous
blackletter-Gothic sign in mangled pseudo-German that once graced about half
the computer rooms in the English-speaking world. One version ran in its
entirety as follows: ACHTUNG! ALLES LOOKENSPEEPERS! Das computermachine ist
nicht fuer gefingerpoken und mittengrabben. Ist easy schnappen der
springenwerk, blowenfusen und poppencorken mit spitzensparken. Ist nicht fuer
gewerken bei das dumpkopfen. Das rubbernecken sichtseeren keepen das
cotten-pickenen hans in das pockets muss; relaxen und watchen das
blinkenlichten. This silliness dates back at least as far as 1959 at Stanford
University and had already gone international by the early 1960s, when it was
reported at London University's ATLAS computing site. There are several
variants of it in circulation, some of which actually do end with the word
`blinkenlights'. In an amusing example of turnabout-is-fair-play, German
hackers have developed their own versions of the blinkenlights poster in
fractured English, one of which is reproduced here: ATTENTION This room is
fullfilled mit special electronische equippment. Fingergrabbing and pressing
the cnoeppkes from the computers is allowed for die experts only! So all the
"lefthanders" stay away and do not disturben the brainstorming von here
working intelligencies. Otherwise you will be out thrown and kicked
anderswhere! Also: please keep still and only watchen astaunished the
blinkenlights. see also {geef}. blit: /blit/ vt. 1. To copy a large array of
bits from one part of a computer's memory to another part, particularly when
the memory is being used to determine what is shown on a display screen. "The
storage allocator picks through the table and copies the good parts up into
high memory, and then blits it all back down again." see {bitblt}, {BLT},
{dd}, {cat}, {blast}, {snarf}. More generally, to perform some operation
(such as toggling) on a large array of bits while moving them. 2.
All-capitalized as `BLIT': an early experimental bit-mapped terminal designed
by Rob Pike at Bell Labs, later commercialized as the AT&T 5620. (The folk
etymology from `Bell Labs Intelligent Terminal' is incorrect.) blitter:
/blit'r/ n. A special-purpose chip or hardware system built to perform {blit}
operations, esp. used for fast implementation of bit-mapped graphics. The
Commodore Amiga and a few other micros have these, but in 1991 the trend is
away from them (however, see {cycle of reincarnation}). Syn. {raster
blaster}. blivet: /bliv'*t/ [allegedly from a World War II military term
meaning "ten pounds of manure in a five-pound bag"] n. 1. An intractable
problem. 2. A crucial piece of hardware that can't be fixed or replaced if it
breaks. 3. A tool that has been hacked over by so many incompetent
programmers that it has become an unmaintainable tissue of hacks. 4. An
out-of-control but unkillable development effort. 5. An embarrassing bug that
pops up during a customer demo. This term has other meanings in other
technical cultures; among experimental physicists and hardware engineers of
various kinds it seems to mean any random object of unknown purpose (similar
to hackish use of {frob}). It has also been used to describe an amusing
trick-the-eye drawing resembling a three-pronged fork that appears to depict
a three-dimensional object until one realizes that the parts fit together in
an impossible way. block: [from process scheduling terminology in OS theory]
1. vi. To delay or sit idle while waiting for something. "We're blocking
until everyone gets here." Compare {busy-wait}. 2. `block on' vt. To block,
waiting for (something). "Lunch is blocked on Phil's arrival." block transfer
computations: n. From the television series "Dr. Who", in which it referred
to computations so fiendishly subtle and complex that they could not be
performed by machines. Used to refer to any task that should be expressible
as an algorithm in theory, but isn't. blow an EPROM: /bloh *n ee'prom/ v.
(alt. `blast an EPROM', `burn an EPROM') To program a read-only memory, e.g.
for use with an embedded system. This term arises because the programming
process for the Programmable Read-Only Memories (PROMs) that preceded
present-day Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memories (EPROMs) involved
intentionally blowing tiny electrical fuses on the chip. Thus, one was said
to `blow' (or `blast') a PROM, and the terminology carried over even though
the write process on EPROMs is nondestructive. blow away: vt. To remove
(files and directories) from permanent storage, generally by accident. "He
reformatted the wrong partition and blew away last night's netnews." Oppose
{nuke}. blow out: vi. Of software, to fail spectacularly; almost as serious
as {crash and burn}. see {blow past}, {blow up}. blow past: vt. To {blow out}
despite a safeguard. "The server blew past the 5K reserve buffer." blow up:
vi. 1. [scientific computation] To become unstable. Suggests that the
computation is diverging so rapidly that it will soon overflow or at least go
{nonlinear}. 2. Syn. {blow out}.