 BLT: /bee ell tee/, /bl@t/ or (rarely) /belt/ n.,vt. Synonym for {blit}.
This is the original form of {blit} and the ancestor of {bitblt}. In these
versions the usage has outlasted the {PDP-10} BLock Transfer instruction from
which {BLT} derives; nowadays, the assembler mnemonic {BLT} almost always
means `Branch if Less Than zero'. Blue Book: n. 1. Informal name for one of
the three standard references on the page-layout and graphics-control
language PostScript (`PostScript Language Tutorial and Cookbook', Adobe
Systems, Addison-Wesley 1985, QA76.73.P67P68, ISBN 0-201-10179-3); the other
two official guides are known as the {Green Book} and {Red Book}. 2. Informal
name for one of the three standard references on Smalltalk: `Smalltalk-80:
The Language and its Implementation', David Robson, Addison-Wesley 1983,
QA76.8.S635G64, ISBN 0-201-11371-63 (this is also associated with green and
red books). 3. Any of the 1988 standards issues by the CCITT 9th plenary
assembly. Until now, they have changed color each review cycle (1984 was {Red
Book}, 1992 would be {Green Book}); however, it is rumored that this
convention is going to be dropped before 1992. These include, among other
things, the X.400 email spec and the Group 1 through 4 fax standards. see
also {{book titles}}. Blue Glue: [IBM] n. IBM's SNA (Systems Network
Architecture) an incredibly {losing} and {bletcherous} protocol suite widely
favored at commercial shops that don't know any better. The official IBM
definition is "That which binds blue boxes together." see {fear and
loathing}. It may not be irrelevant that {Blue Glue} is the trade name of a
3M product that is commonly used to hold down the carpet squares to the
removable panel floors so common in computer installations. A correspondent
at U. Minn. reports that the CS dept. there has about 80 bottles of Blue Glue
hanging about, so they often refer to any messy work to be done as `using the
blue glue'. blue goo: n. Term for `police' {nanobot}s intended to prevent
{gray goo}, denature hazardous waste, destroy pollution, put ozone back into
the stratosphere, prevent halitosis, and to promote truth, justice, and the
American way, etc., etc. see {{nanotechnology}}.