 :BNF: /B·N·F/, n. 1. [techspeak] Acronym for Backus Normal Form (later
retronymed to Backus-Naur Form because BNF was not in fact a normal form), a
metasyntactic notation used to specify the syntax of programming languages,
command sets, and the like. Widely used for language descriptions but seldom
documented anywhere, so that it must usually be learned by osmosis from other
hackers. Consider this BNF for a U.S. postal address: <postal-address> ::=
<name-part> <street-address> <zip-part> <personal-part> ::= <name> |
<initial> "." <name-part> ::= <personal-part> <last-name> [<jr-part>] <EOL> |
<personal-part> <name-part> <street-address> ::= [<apt>] <house-num>
<street-name> <EOL> <zip-part> ::= <town-name> "," <state-code> <ZIP-code>
<EOL> This translates into English as: "A postal-address consists of a
name-part, followed by a street-address part, followed by a zip-code part. A
personal-part consists of either a first name or an initial followed by a
dot. A name-part consists of either: a personal-part followed by a last name
followed by an optional jr-part (Jr., Sr., or dynastic number) and
end-of-line, or a personal part followed by a name part (this rule
illustrates the use of recursion in BNFs, covering the case of people who use
multiple first and middle names and/or initials). A street address consists
of an optional apartment specifier, followed by a street number, followed by
a street name. A zip-part consists of a town-name, followed by a comma,
followed by a state code, followed by a ZIP-code followed by an end-of-line."
Note that many things (such as the format of a personal-part, apartment
specifier, or ZIP-code) are left unspecified. These are presumed to be
obvious from context or detailed somewhere nearby. see also {parse}. 2. Any
of a number of variants and extensions of BNF proper, possibly containing
some or all of the {regexp} wildcards such as * or +. In fact the example
above isn't the pure form invented for the Algol-60 report; it uses [], which
was introduced a few years later in IBM's PL/I definition but is now
universally recognized. 3. In {science-fiction fandom}, a `Big-Name Fan'
(someone famous or notorious). Years ago a fan started handing out
black-on-green BNF buttons at SF conventions; this confused the hacker
contingent terribly.