 :bob: n. At Demon Internet (http://www.demon.net/), all tech support
personnel are called "Bob". (Female support personnel have an option on
"Bobette"). This has nothing to do with Bob the divine drilling-equipment
salesman of the {Church of the SubGenius}. Nor is it acronymized from
"Brother Of {BOFH}", though all parties agree it could have been. Rather, it
was triggered by an unusually large draft of new tech-support people in 1995.
It was observed that there would be much duplication of names. To ease the
confusion, it was decided that all support techs would henceforth be known as
"Bob", and identity badges were created labelled "Bob 1" and "Bob 2". ("No,
we never got any further" reports a witness). The reason for "Bob" rather
than anything else is due to a {luser} calling and asking to speak to "Bob",
despite the fact that no "Bob" was currently working for Tech Support. Since
we all know "the customer is always right", it was decided that there had to
be at least one "Bob" on duty at all times, just in case. This sillyness
inexorably snowballed. Shift leaders and managers began to refer to their
groups of "bobs". Whole ranks of support machines were set up (and still
exist in the DNS as of 1999) as bob1 through bobN. Then came
alt.tech-support.recovery, and it was filled with Demon support personnel.
They all referred to themselves, and to others, as `bob', and after a while
it caught on.There is now a Bob Code
(http://bob.bob.bofh.org/~giolla/bobcode.html) describing the Bob nature.