 :bogon: /boh'gon/ n. [very common; by analogy with proton/electron/neutron,
but doubtless reinforced after 1980 by the similarity to Douglas Adams's
`Vogons'; see the {Bibliography} in Appendix C and note that Arthur Dent
actually mispronounces `Vogons' as `Bogons' at one point] 1. The elementary
particle of bogosity (see {quantum bogodynamics}). For instance, "the
Ethernet is emitting bogons again" means that it is broken or acting in an
erratic or bogus fashion. 2. A query packet sent from a TCP/IP domain
resolver to a root server, having the reply bit set instead of the query bit.
3. Any bogus or incorrectly formed packet sent on a network. 4. By
synecdoche, used to refer to any bogus thing, as in "I'd like to go to lunch
with you but I've got to go to the weekly staff bogon". 5. A person who is
bogus or who says bogus things. This was historically the original usage, but
has been overtaken by its derivative senses 1-4. see also {bogosity},
{bogus}; compare {psyton}, {fat electrons}, {magic smoke}. The bogon has
become the type case for a whole bestiary of nonce particle names, including
the `clutron' or `cluon' (indivisible particle of cluefulness, obviously the
antiparticle of the bogon) and the futon (elementary particle of
{randomness}, or sometimes of lameness). These are not so much live usages in
themselves as examples of a live meta-usage: that is, it has become a
standard joke or linguistic maneuver to "explain" otherwise mysterious
circumstances by inventing nonce particle names. And these imply nonce
particle theories, with all their dignity or lack thereof (we might note
parenthetically that this is a generalization from "(bogus particle)
theories" to "bogus (particle theories)"!). Perhaps such particles are the
modern-day equivalents of trolls and wood-nymphs as standard starting-points
around which to construct explanatory myths. Of course, playing on an
existing word (as in the `futon') yields additional flavor. Compare {magic
smoke}.