 :bogus: adj. 1. Non-functional. "Your patches are bogus." 2. Useless. "OPCON
is a bogus program." 3. False. "Your arguments are bogus." 4. Incorrect.
"That algorithm is bogus." 5. Unbelievable. "You claim to have solved the
halting problem for Turing Machines? That's totally bogus." 6. Silly. "Stop
writing those bogus sagas." Astrology is bogus. So is a bolt that is
obviously about to break. So is someone who makes blatantly false claims to
have solved a scientific problem. (This word seems to have some, but not all,
of the connotations of {random} -- mostly the negative ones.) It is claimed
that `bogus' was originally used in the hackish sense at Princeton in the
late 1960s. It was spread to CMU and Yale by Michael Shamos, a migratory
Princeton alumnus. A glossary of bogus words was compiled at Yale when the
word was first popularized there about 1975-76. These coinages spread into
hackerdom from CMU and MIT. Most of them remained wordplay objects rather
than actual vocabulary items or live metaphors. Examples: `amboguous' (having
multiple bogus interpretations); `bogotissimo' (in a gloriously bogus
manner); `bogotophile' (one who is pathologically fascinated by the bogus);
`paleobogology' (the study of primeval bogosity). Some bogowords, however,
obtained sufficient live currency to be listed elsewhere in this lexicon; see
{bogometer}, {bogon}, {bogotify}, and {quantum bogodynamics} and the related
but unlisted {Dr. Fred Mbogo}. By the early 1980s `bogus' was also current in
something like hacker usage sense in West Coast teen slang, and it had gone
mainstream by 1985. A correspondent from Cambridge reports, by contrast, that
these uses of `bogus' grate on British nerves; in Britain the word means,
rather specifically, `counterfeit', as in "a bogus 10-pound note". According
to Merriam-Webster, the word dates back to 1825 and originally referred to a
counterfeiting machine.