 PDP-11 developed by Bill Joy and others at {Berzerkeley} starting around
1977, incorporating paged virtual memory, TCP/IP networking enhancements, and
many other features. The BSD versions (4.1, 4.2, and 4.3) and the commercial
versions derived from them (SunOS, ULTRIX, and Mt. Xinu) held the technical
lead in the Unix world until AT&T's successful standardization efforts after
about 1986; descendants including Free/Open/NetBSD, BSD/OS and MacOS X are
still widely popular. Note that BSD versions going back to 2.9 are often
referred to by their version numbers alone, without the BSD prefix. see
{4.2}, {{Unix}}, {USG Unix}. :BSOD: /B-S-O-D/ Very commmon abbreviation for
{Blue Screen of Death}. Both spoken and written. :BUAF: // n. [abbreviation,
from alt.fan.warlord] Big Ugly ASCII Font -- a special form of {ASCII art}.
Various programs exist for rendering text strings into block, bloob, and
pseudo-script fonts in cells between four and six character cells on a side;
this is smaller than the letters generated by older {banner} (sense 2)
programs. These are sometimes used to render one's name in a {sig block}, and
are critically referred to as `BUAF's. see {warlording}. :BUAG: // n.
[abbreviation, from alt.fan.warlord] Big Ugly ASCII Graphic. Pejorative term
for ugly {ASCII art}, especially as found in {sig block}s. For some reason,
mutations of the head of Bart Simpson are particularly common in the least
imaginative {sig block}s. see {warlording}. :bubble sort: n. Techspeak for a
particular sorting technique in which pairs of adjacent values in the list to
be sorted are compared and interchanged if they are out of order; thus, list
entries `bubble upward' in the list until they bump into one with a lower
sort value. Because it is not very good relative to other methods and is the
one typically stumbled on by {naive} and untutored programmers, hackers
consider it the {canonical} example of a naive algorithm. (However, it's been
shown by repeated experiment that below about 5000 records bubble-sort is OK
anyway.) The canonical example of a really _bad_ algorithm is {bogo-sort}.