 BUG n. An unwanted and unintended property of a program or hardware, esp.
one which causes it to malfunction. Antonym of FEATURE. Examples: "There's a
bug in the editor: it writes things out backwards." "The system CRASHED
because of a hardware bug." "Fred is a winner, but he has a few bugs." (e.g.
Fred is a good guy, but he has a few personality problems.) Some have said
this term came from telephone company usage: "bugs in a telephone cable" were
blamed for noisy lines, but this appears to be a `folk etymology'. Admiral
Grace Hopper (an early computing pioneer better known for inventing COBOL)
liked to tell a story in which a technician solved a persistent glitch in the
Harvard Mark II machine by pulling an actual physical bug out between the
contacts of one of its relays, and she subsequently promulgated BUG in its
hackish sense as a joke about the incident (though, as she was careful to
admit, she was not there when it happened). For many years the logbook
associated with the incident and the actual bug in question (a moth) sat in a
display case at the Naval Surface Warfare Center, and now resides in the
Smithsonian. Interestingly, the text of the log entry, which is said to read
"First example of a real computer `bug"' establishes that the term was
already in use at the time; and a similar incident is alleged to have
occurred on the original ENIAC machine. Indeed, the use of "bug" to mean an
industrial defect was already established in Thomas Edison's time, and "bug"
in the sense of an annoyance goes back to Shakespeare! In any case, in
hacker's slang the word almost never refers to insects. Here is a plausible
conversation that never actually happened: "This ant-farm has a bug." "What
do you mean? There aren't even any ants in it." "That's the bug."