 BWQ: /bee duhb'l-yoo kyoo/ [IBM; acronym, Buzz Word Quotient] The percentage
of buzzwords in a speech or documents. Usually roughly proportional to
{bogosity}. see {TLA}. by hand: adv. Said of an operation (especially a
repetitive, trivial and/or tedious one) which ought to be performed
automatically by the computer, but which a hacker instead has to step
tediously through. "My mailer doesn't have a command to include the text of
the message I'm replying to, so I have to do it by hand". Compare {eyeball
search}. byte:: [techspeak] n. A unit of memory or data equal to the amount
needed to represent one character; usually 8 bits, occasionally 9 (on 36-bit
machines). The term originated in 1956 during the early design phase for the
IBM Stretch computer; originally it was described as one to six bits (typical
I/O equipment of the period used 6-bit chunks of information). The move to an
8-bit byte happened in late 1956, and this size was later adopted and
promulgated as a standard by the System/360. The term `byte' was coined by
mutating the word `bite' so it would not be accidentally misspelt as {bit}.
see also {nybble}. bytesexual: /biet-seks'u-@l/ adj. Said of hardware,
denotes willingness to compute or pass data in either {big-endian} or
{little-endian} format (depending, presumably, on a {mode bit} somewhere).
see also {NUXI problem}. = C = ===== C: n. 1. The third letter of the Latin
alphabet. 2. ASCII #b1000011. 3. The name of a programming language designed
by Dennis Ritchie during the early 1970s and immediately used to re-implement
{UNIX}. So called because many features derived from an earlier interpreter
named `B' in commemoration of *its* parent, BCPL; before Bjarne Stroustrup
settled the question by designing C++, there was a humorous debate over
whether C's successor should be named `D' or `P'. C became immensely popular
outside Bell Labs after about 1980 and is now the dominant language in
systems and microcomputer applications programming. see also {languages of
choice}, {indent style}. C is often described, with a mixture of fondness and
disdain varying according to the speaker, as "a language which combines all
the elegance and power of assembly language with the readability and
maintainability of assembly language". calculator: [Cambridge] n. Syn. for
{bitty box}. can: vt. To abort a job on a time-sharing system. Used esp. when
the person doing the deed is an operator, as in "canned from the
{{console}}". Frequently used in an imperative sense, as in "Can that print
job, the LPT just popped a sprocket!". Synonymous with {gun}. It is said that
the ASCII character with mnemonic CAN (#b0011000) was used as a kill-job
character on some early OSs. canonical: [historically, `according to
religious law'] adj. The usual or standard state or manner of something. This
word has a somewhat more technical meaning in mathematics. For example, one
sometimes speaks of a formula as being in canonical form. Two formulas such
as `9 + x' and `x + 9' are said to be equivalent because they mean the same
thing, but the second one is in canonical form because it is written in the
usual way, with the highest power of `x' first. Usually there are fixed rules
you can use to decide whether something is in canonical form. The jargon
meaning is a relaxation of the technical meaning (this generalization is
actually not confined to hackers, and may be found throughout academia).
Compare {vanilla}. A true story: One Bob Sjoberg, new at the MIT AI Lab,
expressed some annoyance at the use of jargon. Over his loud objections, GLS
and RMS made a point of using it as much as possible in his presence, and
eventually it began to sink in. Finally, in one conversation, he used the
word `canonical' in jargon-like fashion without thinking. Steele: "Aha! We've
finally got you talking jargon too!" Stallman: "What did he say?" Steele:
"Bob just used `canonical' in the canonical way." Of course, canonicality
depends on context, but is implicitly defined as the way *hackers* normally
do things. Thus, a hacker may claim with a straight face that "according to
religious law" is *not* the canonical meaning of `canonical'. card: n. 1. An
electronic printed-circuit board (see also {tall card}, {short card}. 2. obs.
Syn. {{punched card}}. card walloper: n. An EDP programmer who grinds out
batch programs that do stupid things like print people's paychecks. Compare
{code grinder}. see also {{punched card}}, {eighty-column mind}. cargo-cult
programming: n. A style of (incompetent) programming dominated by ritual
inclusion of code or program structures that serve no real purpose. A
cargo-cult programmer will usually explain the extra code as a way of working
around some bug encountered in the past, but usually neither the bug nor the
reason the code avoided the bug were ever fully understood (compare {shotgun
debugging}). The term cargo-cult is a reference to aboriginal religions that
grew up in the South Pacific after World War II. The practices of these cults
center on building elaborate mockups of airplanes and military style landing
strips in the hope of bringing the return of the god-like airplanes that
brought such marvelous cargo during the war. Hackish usage probably derives
from Richard Feynman's characterization of certain practices as "cargo-cult
science" in his book `Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman' (W. W Norton & Co,
New York 1985, ISBN 0-393-01921-7). case and paste: [from `cut and paste'] n.
1. The addition of a new {feature} to an existing system by selecting the
code from an existing feature and pasting it in with minor changes. Common in
telephony circles because most operations in a telephone switch are selected
using case statements. Leads to {software bloat}. In some circles of EMACS
users this is called `programming by Meta-W', because Meta-W is the EMACS
command for copying a block of text to a kill buffer in preparation to
pasting it in elsewhere. The term is condescending, implying that the
programmer is acting mindlessly rather than thinking carefully about what is
required to integrate the code for two similar cases. casters-up mode:
/cas'trz uhp mohd/ [IBM] n. Yet another synonym for `broken' or `down'.
casting the runes: n. The act of getting a {guru} to run a particular program
and type at it because it never works for anyone else; esp. used when nobody
can ever see what the guru is doing different from what J. Random Luser does.
Compare {incantation}, {runes}, {examining the entrails}; also see the AI
koan about Tom Knight in Appendix A. cat: [from `catenate' via {UNIX}
`cat(1)'] vt. 1. [techspeak] To spew an entire file to the screen or some
other output sink without pause. 2. By extension, to dump large amounts of
data at an unprepared target or with no intention of browsing it carefully.
Usage: considered silly. Rare outside UNIX sites. see also {dd}, {BLT}. Among
UNIX-haters, `cat(1)' is considered the {canonical} example of poor
user-interface design. This because it is more often used to {blast} a file
to standard output than to concatenate two files. The name `cat' for the
former operation is just as unintuitive as, say, LISP's {cdr}. catatonic:
adj. Describes a condition of suspended animation in which something is so
{wedged} or {hung} that it makes no response. For example, if you are typing
on a terminal and suddenly the computer doesn't even echo the letters back to
the screen as you type, let alone do what you're asking it to do, then the
computer is suffering from catatonia (possibly because it has crashed).
Compare {buzz}. cdr: /ku'dr/ or /kuh'dr/ [from LISP] vt. To skip past the
first item from a list of things (generalized from the LISP operation on
binary tree structures). In the form `cdr down', to trace down a list of
elements. "Shall we cdr down the agenda?" Usage: silly. see also {loop
through}. Historical note: the instruction format of the IBM 7090 that hosted
the original LISP implementation featured two 15-bit fields called the
`address' and `decrement' parts. The term `cdr' was originally `Contents of
Decrement part of Register'. Similarly, `car' stood for `Contents of Address
part of Register'. The `cdr' and `car' operations have since become bases for
formation of compound metaphors in non-LISP contexts. GLS recalls, for
example, a programming project in which strings were represented as linked
lists; the get-character and skip-character operations were of course called
CHAR and CHDR. chad: /chad/ n. 1. The perforated edge strips on printer
paper, after they have been separated from the printed portion. Also called
{selvage} and {perf}. 2. obs. The confetti-like paper bits punched out of
cards or paper tape; this was also called `chaff', `computer confetti', and
`keypunch droppings'. Historical note: one correspondent believes `chad'
(sense #2) derives from the Chadless keypunch (named for its inventor), which
cut little u-shaped tabs in the card to make a hole when the tab folded back,
rather than punching out a circle/rectangle; it was clear that if the
`Chadless' keypunch didn't make them, then the stuff that other keypunches
made had to be `chad'. chad box: n. {Iron Age} card punches contained boxes
inside them, about the size of a lunchbox (or in some models a large
wastebasket), that held the {chad} (squares of paper punched out of punch
cards). You had to open the covers of the card punch periodically and empty
the chad box. The {bit bucket} was notionally the equivalent device in the
CPU enclosure, which was typically across the room in another great
grey-and-blue box. chain: [orig. from BASIC's CHAIN statement] vi. When used
of programming languages, refers to a statement that allows a parent
executable to hand off execution to a child or successor without going
through the {OS} command interpreter. The state of the parent program is lost
and there is no returning to it. Though this facility used to be common on
memory-limited micros and is still widely supported for backward
compatibility, the jargon usage is semi-obsolescent; in particular, most UNIX
programmers will think of this as an {exec}. Oppose the more modern
{subshell}. char: /keir/ or /char/; rarely, /kar/ n. Shorthand for
`character'. Esp. used by C programmers, as `char' is C's typename for
character data. chase pointers: 1. vi. To go through multiple levels of
indirection, as in traversing a linked list or graph structure. Used esp. by
programmers in C, where explicit pointers are a very common data type. This
is almost techspeak, but remains jargon when used of human networks. "I'm
chasing pointers. Bob said you could tell me who to talk to about...." 2.
[Cambridge] `pointer chase' or `pointer hunt': the process of going through a
dump (interactively or on a large piece of paper printed with hex {runes})
following dynamic data-structures. Only used in a debugging context. chemist:
[Cambridge] n. Someone who wastes computer time on {number-crunching} when
you'd far rather the machine were doing something more productive, such as
working out anagrams of your name or printing Snoopy calendars or running
{life} patterns. May or may not refer to someone who actually studies
chemistry. Chernobyl packet: /cher-noh'b@l pak'@t/ n. A network packet that
induces {network meltdown} (the result of a {broadcast storm}), in memory of
the 1987 nuclear accident at Chernobyl in the Ukraine. The typical case of
this is an IP Ethergram that passes through a gateway with both source and
destination Ether and IP address set as the respective broadcast addresses
for the subnetworks being gated between. Compare {Christmas tree packet}.
chiclet keyboard: n. A keyboard with small rectangular or lozenge-shaped
rubber or plastic keys that look like pieces of chewing gum (Chiclet is a
brand-name and also the Spanish common noun for the stuff). Used esp. to
describe the original IBM PCjr keyboard. Vendors unanimously liked these
because they were cheap, and a lot of early portable and laptop products got
launched using them. Customers rejected the idea with almost equal unanimity,
and chiclets are not often seen on anything larger than a digital watch any
more. Chinese Army technique: n. Syn. {Mongolian Hordes technique}. choke:
vt. To reject input, often ungracefully. "I tried building an {EMACS} binary
to use {X}, but `cpp(1)' choked on all those `#define's." see {barf}, {gag},
{vi}. chomp: vt. To lose; specifically, to chew on something of which more
was bitten off than one can. Probably related to gnashing of teeth. see
{bagbiter}. A hand gesture commonly accompanies this, consisting of the four
fingers held together as if in a mitten or hand puppet, and the fingers and
thumb open and close rapidly to illustrate a biting action (much like what
the PacMan does in the classic video game, though this pantomime seems to
predate that). The gesture alone means "chomp chomp" (see Verb Doubling). The
hand may be pointed at the object of complaint, and for real emphasis you can
use both hands at once. For example, to do this to a person is equivalent to
saying "You chomper!" If you point the gesture at yourself, it is a humble
but humorous admission of some failure. You might do this if someone told you
that a program you had written had failed in some surprising way and you felt
dumb for not having anticipated it. chomper: n. Someone or something that is
chomping; a loser. see {loser}, {bagbiter}, {chomp}. Christmas tree: n. A
kind of RS-232 line tester or breakout box featuring rows of blinking red and
green LEDs like Christmas lights. Christmas tree packet: n. A packet with
every single option set for whatever protocol is in use. see {kamikaze
packet}, {Chernobyl packet}. chug: vi. To run slowly; to {grind} or {grovel}.
"The disk is chugging like crazy." chrome: [from automotive slang via
wargaming] n. Showy features added to attract users but which contribute
little or nothing to the power of a system. "The 3D icons in Motif are just
chrome, but they certainly are `pretty' chrome!" Distinguished from {bells
and whistles} by the fact that the latter are usually added to gratify
developers' own desires for featurefulness. Church of the Sub-Genius: n. A
mutant offshoot of {Discordianism} launched in 1981 as a spoof of
fundamentalist Christianity by the `Reverend' Ivan Stang, a brilliant
satirist with a gift for promotion. Popular among hackers as a rich source of
bizarre imagery and references such as: `Bob' the divine drilling-equipment
salesman, the Benevolent Space Xists, and the Stark Fist of Removal. Much
Sub-Genius theory is concerned with the acquisition of the mystical substance
or quality of `slack'. see also {ha ha only serious}. Cinderella Book: [CMU]
n. `Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation', by John
Hopcroft and Jeffrey Ullman, Addison-Wesley, 1979. So-called because the
cover depicts a girl (putatively Cinderella) sitting in front of a Rube
Goldberg device and holding a rope from that device. The back cover depicts
the girl with the Rube Goldberg in shambles after having pulled on the rope.
see also {{book titles}}.