 ========= THIS IS THE JARGON FILE, VERSION 2.3.1 03 JAN 1991
================= Introduction ************ This document is a collection of
slang terms used by various subcultures of computer hackers. Though some
technical material is included for background and flavor, it is not a
technical dictionary; what we describe here is the language hackers use among
themselves for fun and social communication within their communities. Though
the format is that of a reference, it is also intended that the material be
enjoyable to browse or read straight through. Even a complete outsider should
find at least a chuckle on nearly every page, and much that is amusingly
thought-provoking. The `hacker culture' is actually a loosely networked
collection of subcultures that is nevertheless conscious of some important
shared experiences, shared roots, and shared values. It has its own myths,
heroes, villains, folk epics, in-jokes, taboos and dreams. Because hackers as
a group are particularly creative people who define themselves partly by
rejection of `normal' values and working habits, it has unusually rich and
conscious traditions for an intentional culture less than thirty-five years
old. Hackers, as a rule, love word-play and are very conscious in their use
of language. Thus, a compilation of their slang is a particularly effective
window into their culture --- and, in fact, this one is the latest version of
an evolving compilation called the `Jargon File' maintained by hackers
themselves for over fifteen years. This one (like its ancestors) is primarily
a lexicon, but also includes `topic entries' which collect background or
sidelight information on hacker culture that would be awkward to try and
subsume under a single term. A selection of longer items of hacker folklore
and humor are included in appendix A. The `outside' reader's attention is
particularly directed to Appendix B, the Portrait of J. Random Hacker.
Appendix C is a bibliography of non-technical works which have either
influenced or described the hacker culture. Because hackerdom is an
intentional culture (one which each individual must choose consciously to
join), one should not be surprised that the line between description and
influence can become more than a little blurred. Earlier Jargon File versions
have played a central role in spreading hacker language and the culture that
goes with it to successively larger populations, and we hope and expect that
this one will do likewise. Revision History ================ The original
`jargon file' (hereafter referred to as `jargon-1') was a collection of
hacker slang from technical cultures including the MIT AI Lab, the Stanford
AI lab, the old ARPANET AI/LISP/PDP-10 communities, Carnegie-Mellon
University, and Worcester Polytechnic Institute. Some entries dated back to
the early 1970s. It was compiled by Raphael Finkel, Don Woods, Mark Crispin,
and Guy L. Steele Jr., and last revised about 1983. Its revisions are all
un-numbered and may be collectively considered `Version 1'. A late version of
jargon-1, expanded with commentary for the mass market, was edited by by Guy
L. Steele into a book published in 1983 as `The Hacker's Dictionary' (Harper
& Row CN 1082, ISBN 0-06-091082-8). The other jargon-1 editors (Raphael
Finkel, Don Woods and Mark Crispin) contributed to the revision, as did also
Richard M. Stallman and Geoff Goodfellow. This book is hereafter referred to
as `Steele-1983'. It is now out of print. This version contains nearly the
entire text of a late version of jargon-1 (a few obsolescent PDP-10-related
entries have been dropped following careful consultation with the editors of
Steele-1983). It merges in about about 80% of the Steele-1983 text, omitting
some framing material and a very few entries introduced in Steele-1983 which
are now also obsolescent. This new version casts a wider net than the old
jargon file; its aim is to cover not just AI but all the technical computing
cultures wherein the true hacker-nature is manifested. More than half of the
entries now derive from USENET and represent slang now current in the C and
UNIX communities. The present maintainer of the jargon file is Eric S.
Raymond (eric@snark.thyrsus.com) with some assistance from Guy L. Steele
(gls@think.com); these are the persons primarily reflected in the File's
editorial `we', though we take pleasure in acknowledging the special
contribution of the other coauthors of Steele-1983. Please email all
additions, corrections and correspondence relating to the jargon file to
jargon@thyrsus.com (UUCP-only sites without connections to an autorouting
smart site can use ...!uunet!snark!jargon). (Warning: other email addresses
appear in this file *but are not guaranteed to be correct* later than the
revision date on the first line. *Don't* email us if an attempt to reach your
idol bounces --- we have no magic way of checking addresses or looking up
people) Some snapshot of this on-line version will become the main text of a
`New Hacker's Dictionary' possibly as early as Fall 1991. The maintainers are
committed to updating the on-line version of the jargon file through and
beyond paper publication, and will continue to make it available to archives
and public-access sites as a trust of the hacker community. Here is a
chronology of the recent on-line revisions: Version 2.1.1, Jun 12 1990: the
jargon file comes alive again after a seven-year hiatus. Reorganization and
massive additions were by Eric