 :CDA: /C-D-A/ The "Communications Decency Act" of 1996, passed on {Black
Thursday} as section 502 of a major telecommunications reform bill. The CDA
made it a federal crime in the U.S.A to send a communication which is
"obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent, with intent to annoy, abuse,
threaten, or harass another person." It also threatens with imprisonment
anyone who "knowingly" makes accessible to minors any message that
"describes, in terms patently offensive as measured by contemporary community
standards, sexual or excretory activities or organs". While the CDA was sold
as a measure to protect minors from the putative evils of pornography, the
repressive political aims of the bill were laid bare by the Hyde amendment,
which intended to outlaw discussion of abortion on the Internet. To say that
this direct attack on First Amendment free-speech rights was not well
received on the Internet would be putting it mildly. A firestorm of protest
followed, including a February 29th mass demonstration by thousands of
netters who turned their {home page}s black for 48 hours. Several
civil-rights groups and computing/telecommunications companies sought an
immediate injunction to block enforcement of the CDA pending a constitutional
challenge. This injunction was granted on the likelihood that plaintiffs
would prevail on the merits of the case. At time of writing (early), the fate
of the CDA, and its effect on the Internet, is still unknown. see also
{Exon}. To join the fight against the CDA, visit the Center for Democracy and
Technology Home Page at http://www.cdt.org.