 :chad: /chad/ n. 1. [common] The perforated edge strips on printer paper,
after they have been separated from the printed portion. Also called
{selvage}, {perf}, and {ripoff}. 2. The confetti-like paper bits punched out
of cards or paper tape; this has also been called `chaff', `computer
confetti', and `keypunch droppings'. It's reported that this was very old
Army slang (associated with teletypewriters before the computer era), and has
been occasionally sighted in directions for punched-card vote tabulators long
after it passed out of live use among computer programmers in the late 1970s.
This sense of `chad' returned to the mainstream during the finale of the
hotly disputed U.S. presidential election in 2000 via stories about the
Florida vote recounts. Note however that in the revived mainstream usage chad
is not a mass noun and `a chad' is a single piece of the stuff. There is an
urban legend that `chad' (sense 2) derives from the Chadless keypunch (named
for its inventor), which cut little u-shaped tabs in the card to make a hole
when the tab folded back, rather than punching out a circle/rectangle; it was
clear that if the Chadless keypunch didn't make them, then the stuff that
other keypunches made had to be `chad'. However, serious attempts to track
down "Chadless" as a personal name or U.S. trademark have failed, casting
doubt on this etymology - and the U.S. Patent Classification System uses
"chadless" (small c) as an adjective, suggesting that "chadless" derives from
"chad" and not the other way around. There is another legend that the word
was originally acronymic, standing for "Card Hole Aggregate Debris", but this
has all the earmarks of a {backronym}. It has also been noted that the word
"chad" is Scots dialect for gravel, but nobody has proposed any plausible
reason that card chaff should be thought of as gravel. None of these
etymologies are really plausible.