 CLM: /see el em/ [Sun, `Career Limiting Move'] 1. n. An action endangering
one's future prospects of getting plum projects and raises, also possibly
one's job. "He used a {bubble-sort}! What a CLM!" 2. adj. Denotes extreme
severity of a bug, discovered by a customer and obviously due to poor
testing: "That's a CLM bug!" clobber: vt. To overwrite; usually
unintentionally. As in "I walked off the end of the array and clobbered the
stack." Compare {mung}, {scribble}, {trash}, and {smash the stack}. clocks:
n. Processor logic cycles, so called because each generally corresponds to
one clock pulse in the processor's timing. The relative execution times of
instructions on a machine are usually discussed in clocks rather than
absolute fractions of a second. Compare {cycle}. clone: n. 1. An exact
duplicate, as in "Our product is a clone of their product." Implies a legal
re-implementation from documentation or by reverse-engineering, as opposed to
the illegalities under sense #3. Also connotes lower price. 2. A shoddy,
spurious copy, as in "Their product is a clone of our product." 3. A blatant
ripoff, most likely violating copyright, patent, or trade secret protections,
as in "Your product is a clone of my product." This usage implies legal
action is pending. 4. A `PC clone'; a PC-BUS/ISA or EISA-compatible 80x86
based microcomputer (this use is sometimes spelled `klone' or `PClone').
These invariably have much more bang for the buck than the IBM archetypes
they resemble. 5. In the construction `UNIX clone': An OS designed to deliver
a UNIX-lookalike environment sans UNIX license fees, or with additional
`mission-critical' features such as support for real-time programming. 6. v.
To make an exact copy of something. "Let me clone that" might mean "I want to
borrow that paper so I can make a photocopy" or "Let me get a copy of that
file before you {mung} it". clustergeeking: /kluh'ster-gee`king/ [CMU] n. An
activity defined by spending more time at a computer cluster doing CS
homework than most people spend breathing.