 :coefficient of X: n. Hackish speech makes heavy use of pseudo-mathematical
metaphors. Four particularly important ones involve the terms `coefficient',
`factor', `index', and `quotient'. They are often loosely applied to things
you cannot really be quantitative about, but there are subtle distinctions
among them that convey information about the way the speaker mentally models
whatever he or she is describing. `Foo factor' and `foo quotient' tend to
describe something for which the issue is one of presence or absence. The
canonical example is {fudge factor}. It's not important how much you're
fudging; the term simply acknowledges that some fudging is needed. You might
talk of liking a movie for its silliness factor. Quotient tends to imply that
the property is a ratio of two opposing factors: "I would have won except for
my luck quotient." This could also be "I would have won except for the luck
factor", but using *quotient* emphasizes that it was bad luck overpowering
good luck (or someone else's good luck overpowering your own). `Foo index'
and `coefficient of foo' both tend to imply that foo is, if not strictly
measurable, at least something that can be larger or smaller. Thus, you might
refer to a paper or person as having a `high bogosity index', whereas you
would be less likely to speak of a `high bogosity factor'. `Foo index'
suggests that foo is a condensation of many quantities, as in the mundane
cost-of-living index; `coefficient of foo' suggests that foo is a fundamental
quantity, as in a coefficient of friction. The choice between these terms is
often one of personal preference; e.g., some people might feel that bogosity
is a fundamental attribute and thus say `coefficient of bogosity', whereas
others might feel it is a combination of factors and thus say `bogosity
index'.