 COM MODE (variant: COMM MODE) [from the ITS feature for linking two or more
terminals together so that text typed on any is echoed on all, providing a
means of conversation among hackers] n. The state a terminal is in when
linked to another in this way. Com mode has a special set of jargon words,
used to save typing, which are not used orally: center; l lw(3.5i). BCNU Be
seeing you. BTW By the way ... BYE? T{ Are you ready to unlink? (This is the
standard way to end a com mode conversation; the other person types BYE to
confirm, or else continues the conversation.) T} CUL see you later. FOO? T{ A
greeting, also meaning R U THERE? Often used in the case of unexpected links,
meaning also "Sorry if I but- ted in" (linker) or "What's up?" (linkee). T}
FYI For your information... GA T{ Go ahead (used when two people have tried
to type simultaneously; this cedes the right to type to the other). T} HELLOP
T{ A greeting, also meaning R U THERE? (An instance of the "-P" convention.)
T} MtFBWY May the Force be with you. (From Star Wars.) NIL No (see the main
entry for NIL). OBTW Oh, by the way ... R U THERE? Are you there? SEC Wait a
second (sometimes written SEC...). T Yes (see the main entry for T). TNX
Thanks. TNX 1.0E6 Thanks a million (humorous). <double CRLF> T{ When the
typing party has finished, he types two CRLF's to signal that he is done;
this leaves a blank line between individual "speeches" in the conversation,
making it easier to re- read the preceding text. T} <name>: T{ When three or
more terminals are linked, each speech is preceded by the typist's login name
and a colon (or a hyphen) to indicate who is typing. The login name often is
shor- tened to a unique prefix (possibly a single letter) dur- ing a very
long conversation. T} /\/\/\ The equivalent of a giggle. At Stanford, where
the link feature is implemented by "talk loops," the term TALK MODE is used
in place of COM MODE. Most of the above "sub-jargon" is used at both Stanford
and MIT.