 :Commonwealth Hackish:: n. Hacker jargon as spoken in English outside the
U.S., esp. in the British Commonwealth. It is reported that Commonwealth
speakers are more likely to pronounce truncations like `char' and `soc',
etc., as spelled (/char/, /sok/), as opposed to American /keir/ and /sohsh/.
Dots in {newsgroup} names (especially two-component names) tend to be
pronounced more often (so soc.wibble is /sok dot wib'l/ rather than /sohsh
wib'l/). Preferred {metasyntactic variable}s include {blurgle}, `eek', `ook',
`frodo', and `bilbo'; {wibble}, `wobble', and in emergencies `wubble';
`flob', `banana', `tom', `dick', `harry', `wombat', `frog', {fish}, {womble}
and so on and on (see {foo}, sense 4). Alternatives to verb doubling include
suffixes `-o-rama', `frenzy' (as in feeding frenzy), and `city' (examples:
"barf city!" "hack-o-rama!" "core dump frenzy!"). All the generic differences
within the anglophone world inevitably show themselves in the associated
hackish dialects. The Greek letters beta and zeta are usually pronounced
/bee't*/ and /zee't*/; meta may also be pronounced /mee't*/. Various
punctuators (and even letters - Z is called `zed', not `zee') are named
differently: most crucially, for hackish, where Americans use `parens',
`brackets' and `braces' for (), [] and {}, Commonwealth English uses
`brackets', `square brackets' and `curly brackets', though `parentheses' may
be used for the first; the exclamation mark, `!', is called pling rather than
bang and the pound sign, `#', is called hash; furthermore, the term `the
pound sign' is understood to mean the pound currency symbol (of course). see
also {attoparsec}, {calculator}, {chemist}, {console jockey}, {fish},
{go-faster stripes}, {grunge}, {hakspek}, {heavy metal}, {leaky heap}, {lord
high fixer}, {loose bytes}, {muddie}, {nadger}, {noddy}, {psychedelicware},
{raster blaster}, {RTBM}, {seggie}, {spod}, {sun lounge}, {terminal junkie},
{tick-list features}, {weeble}, {weasel}, {YABA}, and notes or definitions
under {Bad Thing}, {barf}, {bogus}, {bum}, {chase pointers}, {cosmic rays},
{crippleware}, {crunch}, {dodgy}, {gonk}, {hamster}, {hardwarily},
{mess-dos}, {nybble}, {proglet}, {root}, {SEX}, {tweak}, {womble}, and
{xyzzy}.