 :computron: /kom´pyoo·tron`/, n. 1. [common] A notional unit of computing
power combining instruction speed and storage capacity, dimensioned roughly
in instructions-per-second times megabytes-of-main-store times
megabytes-of-mass-storage. "That machine can't run GNU Emacs, it doesn't have
enough computrons!" This usage is usually found in metaphors that treat
computing power as a fungible commodity good, like a crop yield or diesel
horsepower. see {bitty box}, {Get a real computer!}, {toy}, {crank}. 2. A
mythical subatomic particle that bears the unit quantity of computation or
information, in much the same way that an electron bears one unit of electric
charge (see also {bogon}). An elaborate pseudo-scientific theory of
computrons has been developed based on the physical fact that the molecules
in a solid object move more rapidly as it is heated. It is argued that an
object melts because the molecules have lost their information about where
they are supposed to be (that is, they have emitted computrons). This
explains why computers get so hot and require air conditioning; they use up
computrons. Conversely, it should be possible to cool down an object by
placing it in the path of a computron beam. It is believed that this may also
explain why machines that work at the factory fail in the computer room: the
computrons there have been all used up by the other hardware. (The popularity
of this theory probably owes something to the Warlock stories by Larry Niven,
the best known being What Good is a Glass Dagger?, in which magic is fueled
by an exhaustible natural resource called mana.)