 :connector conspiracy: /n./ [probably came into prominence with the
appearance of the KL-10 (one model of the {PDP-10}), none of whose connectors
matched anything else] The tendency of manufacturers (or, by extension,
programmers or purveyors of anything) to come up with new products that don't
fit together with the old stuff, thereby making you buy either all new stuff
or expensive interface devices. The KL-10 Massbus connector was actually
*patented* by {DEC}, which reputedly refused to license the design and thus
effectively locked third parties out of competition for the lucrative Massbus
peripherals market. This policy is a source of never-ending frustration for
the diehards who maintain older PDP-10 or VAX systems. Their CPUs work fine,
but they are stuck with dying, obsolescent disk and tape drives with low
capacity and high power requirements. (A closely related phenomenon, with a
slightly different intent, is the habit manufacturers have of inventing new
screw heads so that only Designated Persons, possessing the magic
screwdrivers, can remove covers and make repairs or install options. A good
1990s example is the invention of Torx screws for cable-TV set-top boxes.
Older Apple Macintoshes took this one step further, requiring not only a hex
wrench but a specialized case-cracking tool to open the box.) In these latter
days of open-systems computing this term has fallen somewhat into disuse, to
be replaced by the observation that "Standards are great! There are so *many*
of them to choose from!" Compare {backward combatability}.