 :cosmic rays: n. Notionally, the cause of {bit rot}. However, this is a
semi-independent usage that may be invoked as a humorous way to {handwave}
away any minor {randomness} that doesn't seem worth the bother of
investigating. "Hey, Eric -- I just got a burst of garbage on my {tube},
where did that come from?" "Cosmic rays, I guess." Compare {sunspots}, {phase
of the moon}. The British seem to prefer the usage cosmic showers; alpha
particles is also heard, because stray alpha particles passing through a
memory chip can cause single-bit errors (this becomes increasingly more
likely as memory sizes and densities increase). Factual note: Alpha particles
cause bit rot, cosmic rays do not (except occasionally in spaceborne
computers). Intel could not explain random bit drops in their early chips,
and one hypothesis was cosmic rays. So they created the World's Largest Lead
Safe, using 25 tons of the stuff, and used two identical boards for testing.
One was placed in the safe, one outside. The hypothesis was that if cosmic
rays were causing the bit drops, they should see a statistically significant
difference between the error rates on the two boards. They did not observe
such a difference. Further investigation demonstrated conclusively that the
bit drops were due to alpha particle emissions from thorium (and to a much
lesser degree uranium) in the encapsulation material. Since it is impossible
to eliminate these radioactives (they are uniformly distributed through the
earth's crust, with the statistically insignificant exception of uranium
lodes) it became obvious that one has to design memories to withstand these
hits.