 3. vt. [from `hand cruft', pun on `hand craft'] To write assembler code for
something normally (and better) done by a compiler (see {hand-hacking}). 4.
n. Excess; superfluous junk; used esp. of redundant or superseded code. 5.
[University of Wisconsin] n. Cruft is to hackers as gaggle is to geese; that
is, at UW one properly says "a cruft of hackers". :cruft together: vt. (also
`cruft up') To throw together something ugly but temporarily workable. Like
vt. {kluge up}, but more pejorative. "There isn't any program now to reverse
all the lines of a file, but I can probably cruft one together in about 10
minutes." see {hack together}, {hack up}, {kluge up}, {crufty}.
:cruftsmanship: /kruhfts'm*n-ship / n. [from {cruft}] The antithesis of
craftsmanship. :crufty: /kruhf'tee/ adj. [origin unknown; poss. from `crusty'
or `cruddy'] 1. Poorly built, possibly over-complex. The {canonical} example
is "This is standard old crufty {DEC} software". In fact, one fanciful theory
of the origin of `crufty' holds that was originally a mutation of `crusty'
applied to DEC software so old that the `s' characters were tall and skinny,
looking more like `f' characters. 2. Unpleasant, especially to the touch,
often with encrusted junk. Like spilled coffee smeared with peanut butter and
catsup. 3. Generally unpleasant. 4. (sometimes spelled `cruftie') n. A small
crufty object (see {frob}); often one that doesn't fit well into the scheme
of things. "A LISP property list is a good place to store crufties (or,
collectively, {random} cruft)." This term is one of the oldest in the jargon
and no one is sure of its etymology, but it is suggestive that there is a
Cruft Hall at Harvard University which is part of the old physics building;
it's said to have been the physics department's radar lab during WWII. To
this day (early 1993) the windows appear to be full of random techno-junk.
MIT or Lincoln Labs people may well have coined the term as a knock on the
competition. :crumb: n. Two binary digits; a {quad}. Larger than a {bit},
smaller than a {nybble}. Considered silly. Syn. {tayste}. General discussion
of such terms is under {nybble}. :crunch: 1. vi. To process, usually in a
time-consuming or complicated way. Connotes an essentially trivial operation
that is nonetheless painful to perform. The pain may be due to the
triviality's being embedded in a loop from 1 to 1,000,000,000. "FORTRAN
programs do mostly {number-crunching}." 2. vt. To reduce the size of a file
by a complicated scheme that produces bit configurations completely unrelated
to the original data, such as by a Huffman code. (The file ends up looking
something like a paper document would if somebody crunched the paper into a
wad.) Since such compression usually takes more computations than simpler
methods such as run-length encoding, the term is doubly appropriate. (This
meaning is usually used in the construction `file crunch(ing)' to distinguish
it from {number-crunching}.) see {compress}. 3. n. The character `#'. Used at
XEROX and CMU, among other places. see {{ASCII}}. 4. vt. To squeeze program
source into a minimum-size representation that will still compile or execute.
The term came into being specifically for a famous program on the BBC micro
that crunched BASIC source in order to make it run more quickly (it was a
wholly interpretive BASIC, so the number of characters mattered). {Obfuscated
C Contest} entries are often crunched; see the first example under that
entry. :cruncha cruncha cruncha: /kruhn'ch* kruhn'ch* kruhn'ch*/ interj. An
encouragement sometimes muttered to a machine bogged down in a serious
{grovel}. Also describes a notional sound made by groveling hardware. see
{wugga wugga}, {grind} (sense 3). :cryppie: /krip'ee/ n. A cryptographer. One
who hacks or implements cryptographic software or hardware. :CTSS: /C-T-S-S/
n. Compatible Time-Sharing System. An early (1963) experiment in the design
of interactive time-sharing operating systems, ancestral to {{Multics}},
{{Unix}}, and {{ITS}}. The name {{ITS}} (Incompatible Time-sharing System)
was a hack on CTSS, meant both as a joke and to express some basic
differences in philosophy about the way I/O services should be presented to
user programs. :CTY: /sit'ee/ or /C-T-Y/ n. [MIT] The terminal physically
associated with a computer's system {{console}}. The term is a contraction of
`Console {tty}', that is, `Console TeleTYpe'. This {{ITS}}- and
{{TOPS-10}}-associated term has become less common, as most Unix hackers
simply refer to the CTY as `the console'. :cube: n. 1. [short for `cubicle']
A module in the open-plan offices used at many programming shops. "I've got
the manuals in my cube." 2. A NeXT machine (which resembles a matte-black
cube). :cubing: vi. [parallel with `tubing'] 1. Hacking on an IPSC (Intel
Personal SuperComputer) hypercube. "Louella's gone cubing _again_!!" 2.
Hacking Rubik's Cube or related puzzles, either physically or mathematically.
3. An indescribable form of self-torture (see sense 1 or 2). :cursor dipped
in X: n. There are a couple of metaphors in English of the form `pen dipped
in X' (perhaps the most common values of X are `acid', `bile', and
`vitriol'). These map over neatly to this hackish usage (the cursor being
what moves, leaving letters behind, when one is composing on-line). "Talk
about a {nastygram}! He must've had his cursor dipped in acid when he wrote
that one!" :cuspy: /kuhs'pee/ adj. [WPI: from the {DEC} abbreviation CUSP,
for `Commonly Used System Program', i.e., a utility program used by many
people] 1. (of a program) Well-written. 2. Functionally excellent. A program
that performs well and interfaces well to users is cuspy. see {rude}. 3.
[NYU] Said of an attractive woman, especially one regarded as available.
Implies a certain curvaceousness. :cut a tape: vi. To write a software or
document distribution on magnetic tape for shipment. Has nothing to do with
physically cutting the medium! Early versions of this lexicon claimed that
one never analogously speaks of `cutting a disk', but this has since been
reported as live usage. Related slang usages are mainstream business's `cut a
check', the recording industry's `cut a record', and the military's `cut an
order'. All of these usages reflect physical processes in obsolete recording
and duplication technologies. The first stage in manufacturing an old-style
vinyl record involved cutting grooves in a stamping die with a precision
lathe. More mundanely, the dominant technology for mass duplication of paper
documents in pre-photocopying days involved "cutting a stencil", punching
away portions of the wax overlay on a silk screen. More directly, paper tape
with holes punched in it was an important early storage medium. :cybercrud:
/si:'ber-kruhd/ n. 1. [coined by Ted Nelson] Obfuscatory tech-talk. Verbiage
with a high {MEGO} factor. The computer equivalent of bureaucratese. 2.
Incomprehensible stuff embedded in email. First there were the "Received"
headers that show how mail flows through systems, then MIME (Multi-purpose
Internet Mail Extensions) headers and part boundaries, and now huge blocks of
hex for PEM (Privacy Enhanced Mail) or PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) digital
signatures and certificates of authenticity. This stuff all services a
purpose and good user interfaces should hide it, but all too often users are
forced to wade through it. :cyberpunk: /si:'ber-puhnk/ n.,adj. [orig. by SF
writer Bruce Bethke and/or editor Gardner Dozois] A subgenre of SF launched in