 :C|N>K: n. [Usenet] Coffee through Nose to Keyboard; that is, "I laughed so
hard I {snarf}ed my coffee onto my keyboard.". Common on alt.fan.pratchett
and {scary devil monastery}; recognized elsewhere. The Acronymphomania FAQ on
alt.fan.pratchett recognizes variants such as T|N>K = `Tea through Nose to
Keyboard' and C|N>S = `Coffee through Nose to Screen'. (The sound of this
happening is, canonically, {splork!}) D daemon daemon book dahmum dancing
frog dangling pointer dark-side hacker Datamation DAU Dave the Resurrector
day mode dd DDT de-rezz dead dead beef attack dead code dead-tree version
DEADBEEF deadlock deadly embrace death code Death Square Death Star Death, X
of DEC DEC Wars decay deckle DED deep hack mode deep magic deep space
defenestration defined as deflicted dehose Dejagoo deletia deliminator delint
delta demented demigod demo demo mode demoeffect demogroup demon demon dialer
demoparty demoscene dentro depeditate deprecated derf deserves to lose despew
dickless workstation dictionary flame diddle die die horribly diff dike
Dilbert ding dink dinosaur dinosaur pen dinosaurs mating dirtball dirty power
disclaimer Discordianism disemvowel disk farm display hack dispress
Dissociated Press distribution distro disusered DMZ do protocol doc
documentation dodgy dogcow dogfood dogpile dogwash Don't do that then! dongle
dongle-disk Doom, X of doorstop DoS attack dot file double bucky doubled sig
down download DP DPer Dr. Fred Mbogo dragon Dragon Book drain dread high-bit
disease dread questionmark disease DRECNET driver droid drone drool-proof
paper drop on the floor drop-ins drop-outs drugged drum drunk mouse syndrome
DSW dub dub dub Duff's device dumb terminal dumbass attack dumbed down dump
dumpster diving dusty deck DWIM dynner