 DEADBEEF: /ded-beef/ n. The hexadecimal word-fill pattern for freshly
allocated memory (decimal -21524111) under a number of IBM environments,
including the RS/6000. As in "Your program is DEADBEEF" (meaning gone,
aborted, flushed from memory); if you start from an odd half-word boundary,
of course, you have BEEFDEAD. deadlock: n. 1. [techspeak] A situation wherein
two or more processes are unable to proceed because each is waiting for one
of the others to do something. A common example is a program communicating to
a server, which may find itself waiting for output from the server before
sending anything more to it, while the server is similarly waiting for more
input from the controlling program before outputting anything. (It is
reported that this particular flavor of deadlock is sometimes called a
`starvation deadlock', though the term `starvation' is more properly used for
situations where a program can never run simply because it never gets high
enough priority. Another common flavor is `constipation', where each process
is trying to send stuff to the other but all buffers are full because nobody
is reading anything.) see {deadly embrace}. 2. Also used of deadlock-like
interactions between humans, as when two people meet in a narrow corridor,
and each tries to be polite by moving aside to let the other pass, but they
end up swaying from side to side without making any progress because they
always both move the same way at the same time. deadly embrace: n. Same as
{deadlock}, though usually used only when exactly 2 processes are involved.
This is the more popular term in Europe, while {deadlock} predominates in the
United States. Death Star: [from the movie "Star Wars"] 1. The AT&T corporate
logo, which appears on computers sold by AT&T and bears an uncanny
resemblance to the `Death Star' in the movie. This usage is particularly
common among partisans of {BSD} UNIX, who tend to regard the AT&T versions as
inferior and AT&T as a bad guy. Copies still circulate of a poster printed by
Mt. Xinu showing a starscape with a space fighter labeled 4.2 BSD streaking
away from a broken AT&T logo wreathed in flames. 2. AT&T's internal magazine,
`Focus', uses `death star' for an incorrectly done AT&T logo in which the
inner circle in the top left is dark instead of light --- a frequent result
of dark-on-light logo images.