 :DEC:: /dek/ n. 1. v. Verbal (and only rarely written) shorthand for
decrement, i.e. `decrease by one'. Especially used by assembly programmers,
as many assembly languages have a `dec' mnemonic. Antonym: {inc}. 2. n.
Commonly used abbreviation for Digital Equipment Corporation, later
deprecated by DEC itself in favor of "Digital" and now entirely obsolete
following the buyout by Compaq. Before the {killer micro} revolution of the
late 1980s, hackerdom was closely symbiotic with DEC's pioneering timesharing
machines. The first of the group of cultures described by this lexicon
nucleated around the PDP-1 (see {TMRC}). Subsequently, the PDP-6, {PDP-10},
{PDP-20}, PDP-11 and {VAX} were all foci of large and important hackerdoms,
and DEC machines long dominated the ARPANET and Internet machine population.
DEC was the technological leader of the minicomputer era (roughly 1967 to
1987), but its failure to embrace microcomputers and Unix early cost it
heavily in profits and prestige after {silicon} got cheap. Nevertheless, the
microprocessor design tradition owes a major debt to the PDP-11 instruction
set, and every one of the major general-purpose microcomputer OSs so far
(CP/M, MS-DOS, Unix, OS/2, Windows NT) was either genetically descended from
a DEC OS, or incubated on DEC hardware, or both. Accordingly, DEC was for
many years still regarded with a certain wry affection even among many
hackers too young to have grown up on DEC machines. DEC reclaimed some of its
old reputation among techies in the first half of the 1990s. The success of
the Alpha, an innovatively-designed and very high-performance {killer micro},
helped a lot. So did DEC's newfound receptiveness to Unix and open systems in
general. When Compaq acquired DEC at the end of 1998 there was some concern
that these gains would be lost along with the DEC nameplate, but the merged
company has so far turned out to be culturally dominated by the ex-DEC side.