 :demoscene: /dem´oh·seen/ [also `demo scene'] A culture of multimedia
hackers located primarily in Scandinavia and northern Europe. Demoscene
folklore recounts that when old-time {warez d00dz} cracked some piece of
software they often added an advertisement in the beginning, usually
containing colorful {display hack}s with greetings to other cracking groups.
The demoscene was born among people who decided building these display hacks
is more interesting than hacking -- or anyway safer. Around 1990 there began
to be very serious police pressure on cracking groups, including raids with
SWAT teams crashing into bedrooms to confiscate computers. Whether in
response to this or for esthetic reasons, crackers of that period began to
build self-contained display hacks of considerable elaboration and beauty
(within the culture such a hack is called a {demo}). As more of these
{demogroup}s emerged, they started to have {compo}s at copying parties (see
{copyparty}), which later evolved to standalone events (see {demoparty}). The
demoscene has retained some traits from the {warez d00dz}, including their
style of handles and group names and some of their jargon. Traditionally
demos were written in assembly language, with lots of smart tricks,
self-modifying code, undocumented op-codes and the like. Some time around
1995, people started coding demos in C, and a couple of years after that,
they also started using Java. Ten years on (in 1998-1999), the demoscene is
changing as its original platforms (C64, Amiga, Spectrum, Atari ST, IBM PC
under DOS) die out and activity shifts towards Windows, Linux, and the
Internet. While deeply underground in the past, demoscene is trying to get
into the mainstream as accepted art form, and one symptom of this is the
commercialization of bigger demoparties. Older demosceners frown at this, but
the majority think it's a good direction. Many demosceners end up working in
the computer game industry. Demoscene resource pages are available at
http://www.oldskool.org/demos/explained/ and http://www.scene.org/.