 :Dissociated Press: n. [play on `Associated Press'; perhaps inspired by a
reference in the 1950 Bugs Bunny cartoon "What's Up, Doc?"] An algorithm for
transforming any text into potentially humorous garbage even more efficiently
than by passing it through a {marketroid}. The algorithm starts by printing
any N consecutive words (or letters) in the text. Then at every step it
searches for any random occurrence in the original text of the last N words
(or letters) already printed and then prints the next word or letter. {EMACS}
has a handy command for this. Here is a short example of word-based
Dissociated Press applied to an earlier version of this Jargon File: wart: n.
A small, crocky {feature} that sticks out of an array (C has no checks for
this). This is relatively benign and easy to spot if the phrase is bent so as
to be not worth paying attention to the medium in question. Here is a short
example of letter-based Dissociated Press applied to the same source: window
sysIWYG: n. A bit was named aften /bee't*/ prefer to use the other guy's re,
especially in every cast a chuckle on neithout getting into useful informash
speech makes removing a featuring a move or usage actual abstractionsidered
interj. Indeed spectace logic or problem! A hackish idle pastime is to apply
letter-based Dissociated Press to a random body of text and {vgrep} the
output in hopes of finding an interesting new word. (In the preceding
example, `window sysIWYG' and `informash' show some promise.) Iterated
applications of Dissociated Press usually yield better results. Similar
techniques called `travesty generators' have been employed with considerable
satirical effect to the utterances of Usenet flamers; see {pseudo}.