 DOUBLE BUCKY: adj. Using both the CTRL and META keys. "The command to burn
all LEDs is double bucky F." see also META BIT, COKEBOTTLE, QUADRUPLE BUCKY,
SPACE-CADET KEYBOARD. The following lyrics were written on May 27, 1978, in
celebration of the Stanford keyboard. A typical MIT comment was that the
Stanford BUCKY BITS (control and meta shifting keys) were nice, but there
weren't enough of them; you could only type 512 different characters on a
Stanford keyword. An obvious thing was simply to add more shifting keys, and
this was eventually done; one problem, is that a keyboard with that many
shifting keys is hard on touch-typists, who don't like to move their hands
away from the home position on the keyboard. It was half-seriously suggested
that the extra shifting keys be pedals; typing on such a keyboard would be
very much like playing a full pipe organ. This idea is mentioned below, in a
parody of a very fine song by Jeffrey Moss called "Rubber Duckie", which was
published in "The Sesame Street Songbook". Double Bucky Double bucky, you're
the one! You make my keyboard lots of fun. Double bucky, an additional bit or
two: (Vo-vo-de-o!) Control and meta, side by side, Augmented ASCII, nine bits
wide! Double bucky! Half a thousand glyphs, plus a few! Oh, I sure wish that
I Had a couple of Bits more! Perhaps a Set of pedals to Make the number of
Bits four: Double double bucky! Double bucky, left and right OR'd together,
outta sight! Double bucky, I'd like a whole word of Double bucky, I'm happy I
heard of Double bucky, I'd like a whole word of you! --- The Great Quux (with
apologies to Jeffrey Moss) [This is, by the way, an excellent example of
computer FILK --- ESR]