 DPer: /dee-pee-er/ n. Data Processor. Hackers are absolutely amazed that
{suit}s use this term self-referentially. "*Computers* process data, not
people!" see {DP}. dragon: n. [MIT] A program similar to a {daemon}, except
that it is not invoked at all, but is instead used by the system to perform
various secondary tasks. A typical example would be an accounting program,
which keeps track of who is logged in, accumulates load-average statistics,
etc. Under ITS, many terminals displayed a list of people logged in, where
they were, what they were running, etc., along with some random picture (such
as a unicorn, Snoopy, or the Enterprise), which was generated by the `name
dragon'. Usage: rare outside MIT --- under UNIX and most other OSes this
would be called a `background demon' or {daemon}. The best-known UNIX example
of a dragon is `cron(1)'. At SAIL, they called this sort of thing a
`phantom'. Dragon Book: n. The classic text `Compilers: Principles,
Techniques and Tools', by Alfred V. Aho, Ravi Sethi, and Jeffrey D. Ullman
(Addison-Wesley 1986; ISBN 0-201-10088-6), so called because of the cover
design featuring a dragon labeled `complexity of compiler design' and a
knight bearing the lance `LALR parser generator' among his other trappings.
This one is more specifically known as the `Red Dragon Book' (1986); an
earlier edition, sans Sethi and titled `Principles Of Compiler Design'
(Alfred V. Aho and Jeffrey D. Ullman; Addison-Wesley, 1977; ISBN
0-201-00022-9), was the `Green Dragon Book' (1977). (Also `New Dragon Book',
`Old Dragon Book'.) The horsed knight and the Green Dragon were warily eying
each other at a distance; now the knight is typing (wearing gauntlets!) at a
terminal showing a video-game representation of the Red Dragon's head while
the rest of the beast extends back in normal space. see also {{book titles}}.
drain: [IBM] v. Syn. for {flush} (sense 2). Has a connotation of finality
about it; one speaks of draining a device before taking it offline. dread
high-bit disease: n. A condition endemic to PRIME (a.k.a. PR1ME)
minicomputers that results in all the characters having their high (0x80) bit
ON rather than OFF. This of course makes transporting files to other systems
much more difficult, not to mention talking to true 8-bit devices. It is
reported that PRIME adopted the reversed-8-bit convention in order to save 25
cents per serial line per machine. This probably qualifies as one of the most
{cretinous} design tradeoffs ever made. see {meta bit}. A few other machines
(including the Atari 800) have exhibited similar brain damage.