 DRECNET: /drek'net/ [from Yiddish/German `dreck', meaning dirt] n.
Deliberate distortion of DECNET, a networking protocol used in the {VMS}
community. So called because DEC helped write the Ethernet specification and
then (either stupidly or as a malignant customer-control tactic) violated
that spec in the design of DRECNET in a way that made it incompatible. see
also {connector conspiracy}. driver: n. 1. The {main loop} of an
event-processing program; the code that gets commands and dispatches them for
execution. 2. [techspeak] In `device driver', code designed to handle a
particular peripheral device such as a magnetic disk or tape unit. 3. In the
TeX general, `driver' also means a program that translates some
device-independent or other common format to something a real device can
actually understand. droid: n. A person (esp. a low-level bureaucrat or
service-business employee) exhibiting most of the following characteristics:
(a) na"ive trust in the wisdom of the parent organization or `the system';
(b) a propensity to believe obvious nonsense emitted by authority figures (or
computers!); blind faith; (c) a rule-governed mentality, one unwilling or
unable to look beyond the `letter of the law' in exceptional situations; and
(d) no interest in fixing that which is broken; an "It's not my job, man"
attitude. Typical droid positions include supermarket checkout assistant and
bank clerk; the syndrome is also endemic in low-level government employees.
The implication is that the rules and official procedures constitute software
that the droid is executing. This becomes a problem when the software has not
been properly debugged. The term `droid mentality' is also used to describe
the mindset behind this behavior. Compare {suit}, {marketroid}; see {-oid}.
drool-proof paper: n. Documentation that has been obsessively {dumbed down},
to the point where only a {cretin} could bear to read it, is said to have
succumbed to the `drool-proof paper syndrome' or to have been `written on
drool-proof paper'. For example, this is an actual quote from Apple's
LaserWriter manual: "Do not expose your LaserWriter to open fire or flame."
drop on the floor: vt. To react to an error condition by silently discarding
messages or other valuable data. "The gateway ran out of memory, so it just
started dropping packets on the floor." Also frequently used of faulty mail
and netnews relay sites that lose messages. see also {black hole}, {bit
bucket}. drop-ins: [prob. by analogy with {drop-outs}] n. Spurious characters
appearing on a terminal or console as a result of line noise or a system
malfunction of some sort. Esp. used when these are interspersed with one's
own typed input. Compare {drop-outs}. drop-outs: n. 1. A variety of `power
glitch' (see {glitch}); momentary 0 voltage on the electrical mains. 2.
Missing characters in typed input due to software malfunction or system
saturation (this can happen under UNIX when a bad connection to a modem
swamps the processor with spurious character interrupts). 3. Mental glitches;
used as a way of describing those occasions when the mind just seems to shut
down for a couple of beats. see {glitch}, {fried}. drugged: adj. (also `on
drugs') 1. Conspicuously stupid, heading toward {brain-damaged}. Often
accompanied by a pantomime of toking a joint (but see appendix B). 2. Of
hardware, very slow relative to normal performance. drunk mouse syndrome: n.
A malady exhibited by the mouse pointing device of some computers. The
typical symptom is for the mouse cursor on the screen to move in random
directions and not in sync with the motion of the actual mouse. Can usually
be corrected by unplugging the mouse and plugging it back again. Another
recommended fix for optical mice is to rotate your mouse pad 90 degrees. At
Xerox PARC in the 1970s, most people kept a can of copier cleaner (isopropyl
alcohol) at their desks. When the steel ball on the mouse had picked up
enough {cruft} to be unreliable, the mouse was doused in cleaner, which
restored it for a while. However, this operation left a fine residue that
accelerated the accumulation of cruft, so the dousings became more and more
frequent. Finally, the mouse was declared `alcoholic' and sent to the clinic
to be dried out in a CFC ultrasonic bath. dumbass attack: /duhm'as *-tak'/
[Purdue] n. Notional cause of a novice's mistake made by the experienced,
especially one made while running as root under UNIX, e.g., typing `rm -r *'
or `mkfs' on a mounted file system. Compare {adger}. dumbed down: adj.
Simplified, with a strong connotation of *over*simplified. Often, a
{marketroid} will insist that the interfaces and documentation of software be
dumbed down after the designer has burned untold gallons of midnight oil
making it smart. This creates friction. see {user-friendly}. dump: n. 1. An
undigested and voluminous mass of information about a problem or the state of
a system, especially one routed to the slowest available output device
(compare {core dump}), and most especially one consisting of hex or octal
{runes} describing the byte-by-byte state of memory, mass storage, or some
file. In {elder days}, debugging was generally done by `groveling over' a
dump (see {grovel}); increasing use of high-level languages and interactive
debuggers has made this uncommon, and the term `dump' now has a faintly
archaic flavor. 2. A backup. This usage is typical only at large timesharing
installations. dup killer: /d[y]oop kill'r/ [FidoNet] n. Software that is
supposed to detect and delete duplicates of a message that may have reached
the FidoNet system via different routes. dup loop: /d[y]oop loop/ (also `dupe
loop') [FidoNet] n. An incorrectly configured system or network gateway may
propagate duplicate messages on one or more {echo}es, with different
identification information that renders {dup killer}s ineffective. If such a
duplicate message eventually reaches a system through which it has already
passed (with the original identification information), all systems passed on
the way back to that system are said to be involved in a {dup loop}. dusty
deck: n. Old software (especially applications) which one is obliged to
remain compatible with (or to maintain). The term implies that the software
in question is a holdover from card-punch days. Used esp. when referring to
old scientific and {number-crunching} software, much of which was written in
FORTRAN and very poorly documented but is believed to be too expensive to
replace. see {fossil}.