 DWIM: /dwim/ [Do What I Mean] 1. adj. Able to guess, sometimes even
correctly, the result intended when bogus input was provided. 2. n.,obs. The
INTERLISP function that attempted to accomplish this feat by correcting many
of the more common errors. see {hairy}. 3. Occasionally, an interjection
hurled at a balky computer, esp. when one senses one might be tripping over
legalisms (see {legalese}). DWIM is often suggested in jest as a desired
feature for a complex program; also, occasionally described as the single
instruction the ideal computer would have. Back when proof of program
correctness were in vogue, there were also jokes about `DWIMC': Do What I
Mean, Correctly). A related term, more often seen as a verb, is DTRT (Do The
Right Thing), see {Right Thing}. dynner: /din'r/ 32 bits, by analogy with
{nybble} and {{byte}}. Usage: rare and extremely silly. see also {playte},
{taste}, {crumb}. E - earthquake: [IBM] n. The ultimate real-world shock test
for computer hardware. Hackish sources at IBM deny the rumor that the Bay
Area quake of 1989 was initiated by the company to test quality assurance
procedures at its California plants. Easter egg: n. 1. A message hidden in
the object code of a program as a joke, intended to be found by persons
disassembling or browsing the code. 2. A message, graphic, or sound-effect
emitted by a program (or, on a PC, the BIOS ROM) in response to some
undocumented set of commands or keystrokes, intended as a joke or to display
program credits. One well-known early Easter egg found in a couple of OSs
caused them to respond to the command `make love' with `not war?'. Many
personal computers have much more elaborate eggs hidden in ROM, including
lists of the developers' names, political exhortations, snatches of music,
and (in one case) graphics images of the entire development team. Easter
egging: [IBM] n. The act of replacing unrelated parts more or less at random
in hopes that a malfunction will go away. Hackers consider this the normal
operating mode of {field circus} techs and do not love them for it. Compare
{shotgun debugging}. eat flaming death: imp. A construction popularized among
hackers by the infamous {CPU WARS} comic; supposed to derive from a famously
turgid line in a WWII-era anti-Nazi propaganda comic which ran "Eat flaming
death, non-Aryan mongrels!" or something of the sort. Used in humorously
overblown expressions of hostility. "Eat flaming death, {EBCDIC} users!"