 EBCDIC: /eb's'dik/ or /eb'k@-dik/ [Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange
Code] n. An alleged character set used on IBM {dinosaur}s that exists in six
mutually incompatible versions, all featuring such delights as non-contiguous
letter sequences and the absence of several ASCII punctuation characters
fairly important for modern computer languages (exactly which characters are
absent vary according to which version of EBCDIC you're looking at). IBM
adapted EBCDIC from {{punched card}} code in the early 1960s and promulgated
it as a customer-control tactic, spurning the already established ASCII
standard. Today, IBM claims to be an open-systems company, but IBM's own
description of the EBCDIC variants and how to convert between them is still
internally classified top-secret, burn-before reading. Hackers blanch at the
very *name* of EBCDIC and consider it a manifestation of purest {evil}. see
also {fear and loathing}. echo: [FidoNet] n. A topic group on {FidoNet}'s
echomail system. Compare {newsgroup}. eighty-column mind: [IBM] n. The sort
said to be employed by persons for whom the transition from card to tape was
traumatic (nobody has dared tell them about disks yet). It is said that these
people, like (according to an old joke) the founder of IBM, will be buried
`face down, 9-edge first' (the 9-edge is the bottom of the card). This is
inscribed on IBM's 1422 and 1602 card readers, and referenced in a famous bit
of doggerel called `The Last Bug', which ends: He died at the console Of
hunger and thirst. Next day he was buried, Face down, 9-edge first. The
eighty-column mind is thought by most hackers to dominate IBM's customer
base, and its thinking. see {{punched card}}, {IBM}, {fear and loathing},
{card walloper}. El Camino Bignum: /el' k@-mee'noh big'num/ n. El Camino
Real. El Camino Real is the name of a street through the San Francisco
peninsula that originally extended (and still appears in places) all the way
down to Mexico City. Navigation on the San Francisco peninsula is usually
done relative to El Camino Real, which defines {logical} north and south even
though it doesn't really run N/S many places. El Camino Real runs right past
Stanford University, and so is familiar to hackers. The Spanish word `real'
(which has two syllables /ray-ahl'/) means `royal'; El Camino Real is `the
royal road'. In the FORTRAN language, a `real' quantity is a number typically
precise to seven significant digits, and a `double precision' quantity is a
larger floating-point number, precise to perhaps fourteen significant digits
(other languages have similar `real' types). When a hacker from MIT visited
Stanford in 1976 or so, he remarked what a long road El Camino Real was.
Making a pun on `real', he started calling it `El Camino Double Precision'
--- but when the hacker was told that the road was hundreds of miles long, he
renamed it `El Camino Bignum', and that name has stuck. (see {bignum}.)
elegant: [from mathematical usage] adj. Combining simplicity, power, and a
certain ineffable grace of design. Higher praise than `clever', `winning', or
even {cuspy}. elephantine: adj. Used of programs or systems which are both
conspicuous {hog}s (due perhaps to poor design founded on {brute force and
ignorance}) and exceedingly {hairy} in source form. An elephantine program
may be functional and even friendly, but (like the old joke about being in
bed with an elephant) it's tough to have around all the same (and, like a
pachyderm, difficult to maintain). In extreme cases, hackers have been known
to make trumpeting sounds or perform expressive proboscatory mime at the
mention of the offending program. Usage: semi-humorous. Compare `has the
elephant nature' and the somewhat more pejorative {monstrosity}. see also
{second-system effect} and {baroque}. elevator controller: n. Another
archetypal dumb embedded-systems application, like {toaster}. During the
deliberations of ANSI X3J11, the C standardization committee, this was
canonical example of its type. "You can't require `printf(3)' to be part of
the default runtime --- what if you're targeting an elevator controller?"
Elevator controllers became important rhetorical weapons on both sides of
several {holy wars}.