 :El Camino Bignum: /el' k*-mee'noh big'nuhm/ n. The road mundanely called El
Camino Real, running along San Francisco peninsula. It originally extended
all the way down to Mexico City; many portions of the old road are still
intact. Navigation on the San Francisco peninsula is usually done relative to
El Camino Real, which defines {logical} north and south even though it isn't
really north-south in many places. El Camino Real runs right past Stanford
University and so is familiar to hackers. The Spanish word `real' (which has
two syllables: /ray-ahl'/) means `royal'; El Camino Real is `the royal road'.
In the FORTRAN language, a `real' quantity is a number typically precise to
seven significant digits, and a `double precision' quantity is a larger
floating-point number, precise to perhaps fourteen significant digits (other
languages have similar `real' types). When a hacker from MIT visited Stanford
in 1976, he remarked what a long road El Camino Real was. Making a pun on
`real', he started calling it `El Camino Double Precision' -- but when the
hacker was told that the road was hundreds of miles long, he renamed it `El
Camino Bignum', and that name has stuck. (see {bignum}.) [GLS has since let
slip that the unnamed hacker in this story was in fact himself --ESR] In
recent years, the synonym `El Camino Virtual' has been reported as an
alternate at IBM and Amdahl sites in the Valley. Mathematically literate
hackers in the Valley have also been heard to refer to some major
cross-street intersecting El Camino Real as "El Camino Imaginary". One
popular theory is that the intersection is located near Moffett Field - where
they keep all those complex planes.