 EMACS: /ee'maks/ [from Editing MACroS] n. The ne plus ultra of hacker
editors, a program editor with an entire LISP system inside it. Originally
written by Richard Stallman in {TECO} at the MIT-AI lab, but the most widely
used versions now run under UNIX. It includes facilities to run compilation
subprocesses and send and receive mail; many hackers spend up to 80% of their
{tube time} inside it. Some versions running under window managers iconify as
an overflowing kitchen sink, perhaps to suggest the one feature the editor
doesn't include. Indeed, some hackers find EMACS too heavyweight and
{baroque} for their taste, and expand the name as `Escape Meta Alt Control
Shift' to spoof its heavy reliance on complex bucky-bitted keystrokes. Other
spoof expansions include `Eight Megabytes And Constantly Swapping',
`Eventually malloc()s All Computer Storage', and `EMACS Makes A Computer
Slow' (see {{Recursive Acronyms}}). see also {vi}. email: /ee'mayl/ 1. n.
Electronic mail automatically passed through computer networks and/or via
modems common-carrier lines. Contrast {snail-mail}, {paper-net}, {voice-net}.
see {network address}. 2. vt. To send email to a person in lisp. Oddly
enough, the word `emailed' is actually listed in the OED; it means "embossed
(with a raised pattern) or arranged in a net work"! A use from 1480 is given,
and the word is derived from French `emmailleure', network. The term is
contrasted with `chain mail'. emoticon: /ee-moh'ti-con/ n. An ASCII glyph
used to indicate an emotional state in email or news. Hundreds have been
proposed, but only a few are in common use. These include: :-) Smiley face
(indicates humor, laughter, or friendliness) :-( Frowney face (indicates
sadness, anger, or upset) ;-) Half-smiley (ha ha only serious) Also known as
"semi-smiley" or "winkey face". :-/ Wry face It appears that the emoticon was
invented by one Scott Fahlman on the CMU {bboard} systems around 1980. He
later wrote "I wish I had saved the original post, or at least recorded the
date for posterity, but I had no idea that I was starting something that
would soon pollute all the world's communication channels.". Of these, the
first two are by far the most frequently encountered. Hyphenless forms of
them are common on CompuServe, GEnie, and BIX; see also {bixie}. On {USENET},
`smiley' is often used as a generic synonymous with {emoticon}, as well as
specifically for the happy-face emoticon. Note for the {newbie}: overuse of
the smiley is a mark of loserhood! More than one per paragraph is a fairly
sure sign that you've gone over the line. empire: n. Any of a family of
military simulations derived from a game written by Peter Langston many years
ago. There are 5 or 6 multi-player variants of varying degrees of
sophistication, and one single-player version implemented for both UNIX and
VMS which is even available as MS-DOS freeware. All are notoriously
addictive. engine: n. 1. A piece of hardware that encapsulates some function,
but can't be used without some kind of {front end}. Today we have,
especially, `print engine': the guts of a laser printer. 2. An analogous
piece of software; notionally, one that does a lot of noisy crunching such as
a `database engine'. The hackish senses of `engine' are actually close to its
original, pre-Industrial-Revolution sense of a skill, clever device or
instrument (the word is cognate to `ingenuity'). This sense had not been
completely eclipsed by the modern connotation of power-transducing machinery
in Charles Babbage's time, which explains why why he named the stored-program
computer that he designed in 1844 the "Analytical Engine." English: n.,obs.
The source code for a program, which may be in any language, as opposed to
the linkable or executable binary produced from it by a compiler. The idea
behind the term is that to a real hacker, a program written in his favorite
programming language is at least as readable as English. Usage: used mostly
by old-time hackers, though recognizable in context. enhancement: n.
{Marketroid}-speak for a bug {fix}. This abuse of language is a popular and
time-tested way to turn incompetence into increased revenue. A hacker would
instead call the fix a {feature}.