 :emoticon: /ee-moh'ti-kon/ n. An ASCII glyph used to indicate an emotional
state in email or news. Although originally intended mostly as jokes,
emoticons (or some other explicit humor indication) are virtually required
under certain circumstances in high-volume text-only communication forums
such as USENET; the lack of verbal and visual cues can otherwise cause what
were intended to be humorous, sarcastic, ironic, or otherwise
non-100%-serious comments to be badly misinterpreted (not always even by
{newbie}s), resulting in arguments and {flame war}s. Hundreds of emoticons
have been proposed, but only a few are in common use. These include: :-)
`smiley face' (for humor, laughter, friendliness, occasionally sarcasm) :-(
`frowney face' (for sadness, anger, or upset) ;-) `half-smiley' ({ha ha only
serious}); also known as `semi-smiley' or `winkey face'. :-/ `wry face'
(These may become more comprehensible if you tilt your head sideways, to the
left.) The first two listed are by far the most frequently encountered.
Hyphenless forms of them are common on CompuServe, GEnie, and BIX; see also
{bixie}. On {USENET}, `smiley' is often used as a generic term synonymous
with {emoticon}, as well as specifically for the happy-face emoticon. It
appears that the emoticon was invented by one Scott Fahlman on the CMU
{bboard} systems around 1980. He later wrote: "I wish I had saved the
original post, or at least recorded the date for posterity, but I had no idea
that I was starting something that would soon pollute all the world's
communication channels." [GLS confirms that he remembers this original
posting]. Note for the {newbie}: Overuse of the smiley is a mark of
loserhood! More than one per paragraph is a fairly sure sign that you've gone
over the line.