 IBM's customer base and its thinking. This only began to change in the
mid-1990s when IBM began to reinvent itself after the triumph of the {killer
micro}. see {IBM}, {fear and loathing}, {card walloper}. A copy of "The Last
Bug" lives on the the GNU site at
`http://www.gnu.org/fun/jokes/last.bug.html'. :El Camino Bignum: /el'
k*-mee'noh big'nuhm/ n. The road mundanely called El Camino Real, running
along San Francisco peninsula. It originally extended all the way down to
Mexico City; many portions of the old road are still intact. Navigation on
the San Francisco peninsula is usually done relative to El Camino Real, which
defines {logical} north and south even though it isn't really north-south in
many places. El Camino Real runs right past Stanford University and so is
familiar to hackers. The Spanish word `real' (which has two syllables:
/ray-ahl'/) means `royal'; El Camino Real is `the royal road'. In the FORTRAN
language, a `real' quantity is a number typically precise to seven
significant digits, and a `double precision' quantity is a larger
floating-point number, precise to perhaps fourteen significant digits (other
languages have similar `real' types). When a hacker from MIT visited Stanford
in 1976, he remarked what a long road El Camino Real was. Making a pun on
`real', he started calling it `El Camino Double Precision' -- but when the
hacker was told that the road was hundreds of miles long, he renamed it `El
Camino Bignum', and that name has stuck. (see {bignum}.) [GLS has since let
slip that the unnamed hacker in this story was in fact himself --ESR] In
recent years, the synonym `El Camino Virtual' has been reported as an
alternate at IBM and Amdahl sites in the Valley. Mathematically literate
hackers in the Valley have also been heard to refer to some major
cross-street intersecting El Camino Real as "El Camino Imaginary". One
popular theory is that the intersection is located near Moffett Field - where
they keep all those complex planes. :elder days: n. The heroic age of
hackerdom (roughly, pre-1980); the era of the {PDP-10}, {TECO}, {{ITS}}, and
the ARPANET. This term has been rather consciously adopted from J. R. R.
Tolkien's fantasy epic "The Lord of the Rings". Compare {Iron Age}; see also
{elvish} and {Great Worm}. :elegant: adj. [common; from mathematical usage]
Combining simplicity, power, and a certain ineffable grace of design. Higher
praise than `clever', `winning', or even {cuspy}. The French aviator,
adventurer, and author Antoine de Saint-Exupe'ry, probably best known for his
classic children's book "The Little Prince", was also an aircraft designer.
He gave us perhaps the best definition of engineering elegance when he said
"A designer knows he has achieved perfection not when there is nothing left
to add, but when there is nothing left to take away." :elephantine: adj. Used
of programs or systems that are both conspicuous {hog}s (owing perhaps to
poor design founded on {brute force and ignorance}) and exceedingly {hairy}
in source form. An elephantine program may be functional and even friendly,
but (as in the old joke about being in bed with an elephant) it's tough to
have around all the same (and, like a pachyderm, difficult to maintain). In
extreme cases, hackers have been known to make trumpeting sounds or perform
expressive proboscatory mime at the mention of the offending program. Usage:
semi-humorous. Compare `has the elephant nature' and the somewhat more
pejorative {monstrosity}. see also {second-system effect} and {baroque}.
:elevator controller: n. An archetypal dumb embedded-systems application,
like {toaster} (which superseded it). During one period (1983-84) in the
deliberations of ANSI X3J11 (the C standardization committee) this was the
canonical example of a really stupid, memory-limited computation environment.
"You can't require `printf(3)' to be part of the default runtime library --
what if you're targeting an elevator controller?" Elevator controllers became
important rhetorical weapons on both sides of several {holy wars}. :elite:
adj. Clueful. Plugged-in. One of the cognoscenti. Also used as a general
positive adjective. This term is not actually native hacker slang; it is used
primarily by crackers and {warez d00dz}, for which reason hackers use it only
with heavy irony. The term used to refer to the folks allowed in to the
"hidden" or "privileged" sections of BBSes in the early 1980s (which,
typically, contained pirated software). Frequently, early boards would only
let you post, or even see, a certain subset of the sections (or `boards') on
a BBS. Those who got to the frequently legendary `triple super secret' boards
were elite. Misspellings of this term in warez d00dz style abound; the forms
`eleet', and `31337' (among others) have been sighted. A true hacker would be
more likely to use `wizardly'. Oppose {lamer}. :ELIZA effect: /*-li:'z*
*-fekt'/ n. [AI community] The tendency of humans to attach associations to
terms from prior experience. For example, there is nothing magic about the
symbol `+' that makes it well-suited to indicate addition; it's just that
people associate it with addition. Using `+' or `plus' to mean addition in a
computer language is taking advantage of the ELIZA effect. This term comes
from the famous ELIZA program by Joseph Weizenbaum, which simulated a
Rogerian psychotherapist by rephrasing many of the patient's statements as
questions and posing them to the patient. It worked by simple pattern
recognition and substitution of key words into canned phrases. It was so
convincing, however, that there are many anecdotes about people becoming very
emotionally caught up in dealing with ELIZA. All this was due to people's
tendency to attach to words meanings which the computer never put there. The
ELIZA effect is a {Good Thing} when writing a programming language, but it
can blind you to serious shortcomings when analyzing an Artificial
Intelligence system. Compare {ad-hockery}; see also {AI-complete}. Sources
for a clone of the original Eliza are available at
`ftp://ftp.cc.utexas.edu/pub/AI_ATTIC/Programs/Classic/Eliza/Eliza.c'.
:elvish: n. 1. The Tengwar of Feanor, a table of letterforms resembling the
beautiful Celtic half-uncial hand of the "Book of Kells". Invented and
described by J. R. R. Tolkien in "The Lord of The Rings" as an orthography
for his fictional `elvish' languages, this system (which is both visually and
phonetically {elegant}) has long fascinated hackers (who tend to be intrigued
by artificial languages in general). It is traditional for graphics printers,
plotters, window systems, and the like to support a Feanorian typeface as one
of their demo items. see also {elder days}. 2. By extension, any odd or
unreadable typeface produced by a graphics device. 3. The typeface mundanely
called `Bo"cklin', an art-Noveau display font. :EMACS: /ee'maks/ n. [from
Editing MACroS] The ne plus ultra of hacker editors, a programmable text
editor with an entire LISP system inside it. It was originally written by
Richard Stallman in {TECO} under {{ITS}} at the MIT AI lab; AI Memo 554
described it as "an advanced, self-documenting, customizable, extensible
real-time display editor". It has since been reimplemented any number of
times, by various hackers, and versions exist that run under most major
operating systems. Perhaps the most widely used version, also written by
Stallman and now called "{GNU} EMACS" or {GNUMACS}, runs principally under
Unix. (Its close relative XEmacs is the second most popular version.) It
includes facilities to run compilation subprocesses and send and receive mail
or news; many hackers spend up to 80% of their {tube time} inside it. Other
variants include {GOSMACS}, CCA EMACS, UniPress EMACS, Montgomery EMACS,
jove, epsilon, and MicroEMACS. (Though we use the original all-caps spelling
here, it is nowadays very commonly `Emacs'.) Some EMACS versions running
under window managers iconify as an overflowing kitchen sink, perhaps to
suggest the one feature the editor does not (yet) include. Indeed, some
hackers find EMACS too {heavyweight} and {baroque} for their taste, and
expand the name as `Escape Meta Alt Control Shift' to spoof its heavy
reliance on keystrokes decorated with {bucky bits}. Other spoof expansions
include `Eight Megabytes And Constantly Swapping' (from when that was a lot
of {core}), `Eventually `malloc()'s All Computer Storage', and `EMACS Makes A
Computer Slow' (see {{recursive acronym}}). see also {vi}. :email: /ee'mayl/
(also written `e-mail' and `E-mail') 1. n. Electronic mail automatically
passed through computer networks and/or via modems over common-carrier lines.
Contrast {snail-mail}, {paper-net}, {voice-net}. see {network address}. 2.
vt. To send electronic mail. Oddly enough, the word `emailed' is actually
listed in the OED; it means "embossed (with a raised pattern) or perh.
arranged in a net or open work". A use from 1480 is given. The word is
probably derived from French `e'maille" (enameled) and related to Old French
`emmailleu"re' (network). A French correspondent tells us that in modern
French, `email' is a hard enamel obtained by heating special paints in a
furnace; an `emailleur' (no final e) is a craftsman who makes email (he
generally paints some objects (like, say, jewelry) and cooks them in a
furnace). There are numerous spelling variants of this word. In Internet
traffic up to 1995, `email' predominates, `e-mail' runs a not-too-distant
second, and `E-mail' and `Email' are a distant third and fourth. :emoticon:
/ee-moh'ti-kon/ n. [common] An ASCII glyph used to indicate an emotional
state in email or news. Although originally intended mostly as jokes,
emoticons (or some other explicit humor indication) are virtually required
under certain circumstances in high-volume text-only communication forums
such as Usenet; the lack of verbal and visual cues can otherwise cause what
were intended to be humorous, sarcastic, ironic, or otherwise
non-100%-serious comments to be badly misinterpreted (not always even by
{newbie}s), resulting in arguments and {flame war}s. Hundreds of emoticons
have been proposed, but only a few are in common use. These include: :-)
`smiley face' (for humor, laughter, friendliness, occasionally sarcasm) :-(
`frowney face' (for sadness, anger, or upset) ;-) `half-smiley' ({ha ha only
serious}); also known as `semi-smiley' or `winkey face'. :-/ `wry face'
(These may become more comprehensible if you tilt your head sideways, to the
left.) The first two listed are by far the most frequently encountered.
Hyphenless forms of them are common on CompuServe, GEnie, and BIX; see also
{bixie}. On {Usenet}, `smiley' is often used as a generic term synonymous
with {emoticon}, as well as specifically for the happy-face emoticon. It
appears that the emoticon was invented by one Scott Fahlman on the CMU
{bboard} systems sometime between early 1981 and mid-1982. He later wrote: "I
wish I had saved the original post, or at least recorded the date for
posterity, but I had no idea that I was starting something that would soon
pollute all the world's communication channels." [GLS confirms that he
remembers this original posting]. Note for the {newbie}: Overuse of the
smiley is a mark of loserhood! More than one per paragraph is a fairly sure
sign that you've gone over the line. :EMP: /E-M-P/ see {spam}. :empire: n.
Any of a family of military simulations derived from a game written by Peter
Langston many years ago. A number of multi-player variants of varying degrees
of sophistication exist, and one single-player version implemented for both
Unix and VMS; the latter is even available as MS-DOS freeware. All are
notoriously addictive. Of various commercial derivatives the best known is
probably "Empire Deluxe" on PCs and Amigas. Modern empire is a real-time
wargame played over the internet by up to 120 players. Typical games last
from 24 hours (blitz) to a couple of months (long term). The amount of sleep
you can get while playing is a function of the rate at which updates occur
and the number of co-rulers of your country. Empire server software is
available for unix-like machines, and clients for Unix and other platforms. A
comprehensive history of the game is available at
`http://www.empire.cx/infopages/History.html'. The Empire resource site is at
`http://www.empire.cx/'. :engine: n. 1. A piece of hardware that encapsulates
some function but can't be used without some kind of {front end}. Today we
have, especially, `print engine': the guts of a laser printer. 2. An
analogous piece of software; notionally, one that does a lot of noisy
crunching, such as a `database engine'. The hacker senses of `engine' are
actually close to its original, pre-Industrial-Revolution sense of a skill,
clever device, or instrument (the word is cognate to `ingenuity'). This sense
had not been completely eclipsed by the modern connotation of
power-transducing machinery in Charles Babbage's time, which explains why he
named the stored-program computer that he designed in 1844 the `Analytical
Engine'. :English: 1. n. obs. The source code for a program, which may be in
any language, as opposed to the linkable or executable binary produced from
it by a compiler. The idea behind the term is that to a real hacker, a
program written in his favorite programming language is at least as readable
as English. Usage: mostly by old-time hackers, though recognizable in
context. Today the prefereed shorthand is sinply {source}. 2. The official
name of the database language used by the old Pick Operating System, actually
a sort of crufty, brain-damaged SQL with delusions of grandeur. The name
permitted {marketroid}s to say "Yes, and you can program our computers in
English!" to ignorant {suit}s without quite running afoul of the
truth-in-advertising laws. :enhancement: n. Common {marketroid}-speak for a
bug {fix}. This abuse of language is a popular and time-tested way to turn
incompetence into increased revenue. A hacker being ironic would instead call
the fix a {feature} -- or perhaps save some effort by declaring the bug
itself to be a feature. :ENQ: /enkw/ or /enk/ [from the ASCII mnemonic
ENQuire for 0000101] An on-line convention for querying someone's
availability. After opening a {talk mode} connection to someone apparently in
heavy hack mode, one might type `SYN SYN ENQ?' (the SYNs representing
notional synchronization bytes), and expect a return of {ACK} or {NAK}
depending on whether or not the person felt interruptible. Compare {ping},
{finger}, and the usage of `FOO?' listed under {talk mode}. :EOF: /E-O-F/ n.
[abbreviation, `End Of File'] 1. [techspeak] The {out-of-band} value returned
by C's sequential character-input functions (and their equivalents in other
environments) when end of file has been reached. This value is usually -1
under C libraries postdating V6 Unix, but was originally 0. DOS hackers think
EOF is ^Z, and a few Amiga hackers think it's ^\. 2. [Unix] The keyboard
character (usually control-D, the ASCII EOT (End Of Transmission) character)
that is mapped by the terminal driver into an end-of-file condition. 3. Used
by extension in non-computer contexts when a human is doing something that
can be modeled as a sequential read and can't go further. "Yeah, I looked for
a list of 360 mnemonics to post as a joke, but I hit EOF pretty fast; all the
library had was a {JCL} manual." see also {EOL}. :EOL: /E-O-L/ n. [End Of
Line] Syn. for {newline}, derived perhaps from the original CDC6600 Pascal.
Now rare, but widely recognized and occasionally used for brevity. Used in
the example entry under {BNF}. see also {EOF}. :EOU: /E-O-U/ n. The mnemonic
of a mythical ASCII control character (End Of User) that would make an ASR-33
Teletype explode on receipt. This construction parodies the numerous obscure
delimiter and control characters left in ASCII from the days when it was
associated more with wire-service teletypes than computers (e.g., FS, GS, RS,
US,