 EOU: /E-O-U/ n. The mnemonic of a mythical ASCII control character (End Of
User) that could make an ASR-33 Teletype explode on receipt. This parodied
the numerous obscure delimiter and control characters left in ASCII from the
days when it was associated more with wire-service teletypes than computers
(e.g., FS, GS, RS, US, EM, SUB, ETX, and esp. EOT). It is worth remembering
that ASR-33s were big, noisy mechanical beasts with a lot of clattering
parts; the notion that one might explode was nowhere near as ridiculous as it
might seem to someone sitting in front of a {tube} or flatscreen today.
epoch: [UNIX: prob. from astronomical timekeeping] n. The time and date
corresponding to 0 in an operating system's clock and timestamp values. Under
most UNIX versions the epoch is 00:00:00 GMT, January 1, 1970. System time is
measured in seconds or {tick}s past the epoch. Weird problems may ensue when
the clock wraps around (see {wrap around}), which is not necessarily a rare
event; on systems counting 10 ticks per second, a signed 32-bit count of
ticks is good only for 6.8 years. The 1-tick-per-second clock of UNIX is good
only until January 18, 2038, assuming word lengths don't increase by then.
see also {wall time}. epsilon: [see {delta}] 1. n. A small quantity of
anything. "The cost is epsilon." 2. adj. Very small, negligible; less than
{marginal}. "We can get this feature for epsilon cost." 3. `within epsilon
of': close enough to be indistinguishable for all practical purposes. This is
even closer than being `within delta of'. "That's not what I asked for, but
it's within epsilon of what I wanted." Alternatively, it may mean not close
enough, but very little is required to get it there: "My program is within
epsilon of working." epsilon squared: n. A quantity even smaller than
{epsilon}, as small in comparison to epsilon as epsilon is to something
normal; completely negligible. If you buy a supercomputer for a million
dollars, the cost of the thousand-dollar terminal to go with it is {epsilon},
and the cost of the ten-dollar cable to connect them is epsilon squared.
Compare {lost in the underflow}, {lost in the noise}. era, the: Syn. {epoch}.
Webster's Unabridged makes these words almost synonymous, but `era' usually
connotes a span of time rather than a point in time. The {epoch} usage is
recommended. Eric Conspiracy: n. A shadowy group of mustachioed hackers named
Eric first pinpointed as a sinister conspiracy by an infamous talk.bizarre
posting ca. 1986; this was doubtless influenced by the numerous `Eric' jokes
in the Monty Python oeuvre. There do indeed seem to be considerably more
mustachioed Erics in hackerdom than the frequency of these three traits can
account for unless they are correlated in some arcane way. Well-known
examples include Eric Allman (he of the `Allman style' described under
{indent style}) and Erik Fair (co-author of NNTP); your editor has heard from
about fourteen others by email, and the organization line `Eric Conspiracy
Secret Laboratories' now emanates regularly from more than one site. Eris:
/e'ris/ n. The Greek goddess of Chaos, Discord, Confusion, and Things You
Know Not Of; her name was latinized to Discordia and she was worshiped by
that name in Rome. Not a very friendly deity in the Classical original, she
was reinvented as a more benign personification of creative anarchy starting
in 1959 by the adherents of {Discordianism} and has since been a semi-serious
subject of veneration in several `fringe' cultures, including hackerdom. see
{Discordianism}, {Church of the SubGenius}. erotics: /ee-ro'tiks/ n.
[Helsinki University of Technology, Finland] n. English-language university
slang for electronics. Often used by hackers in Helsinki, maybe because good
electronics excites them and makes them warm. essentials: n. Things necessary
to maintain a productive and secure hacking environment. "A jug of wine, a
loaf of bread, a 20-megahertz 80386 box with 8 meg of core and a 300-megabyte
disk supporting full UNIX with source and X windows and EMACS and UUCP via a
'blazer to a friendly Internet site, and thou." evil: adj. As used by
hackers, implies that some system, program, person, or institution is
sufficiently maldesigned as to be not worth the bother of dealing with.
Unlike the adjectives in the {cretinous}/{losing}/{brain-damaged} series,
`evil' does not imply incompetence or bad design, but rather a set of goals
or design criteria fatally incompatible with the speaker's. This is more an
esthetic and engineering judgment than a moral one in the mainstream sense.
"We thought about adding a {Blue Glue} interface but decided it was too evil
to deal with." "{TECO} is neat, but it can be pretty evil if you're prone to
typos." Often pronounced with the first syllable lengthened, as /eeee'vil/.
exa-: /ek's*/ [SI] pref. see {{quantifiers}}. examining the entrails: n. The
process of {grovel}ling through a core dump or hex image in the attempt to
discover the bug that brought a program or system down. Compare {runes},
{incantation}, {black art}, {desk check}.