 EM, SUB, ETX, and esp. EOT). It is worth remembering that ASR-33s were big,
noisy mechanical beasts with a lot of clattering parts; the notion that one
might explode was nowhere near as ridiculous as it might seem to someone
sitting in front of a {tube} or flatscreen today. :epoch: n. [Unix: prob.
from astronomical timekeeping] The time and date corresponding to 0 in an
operating system's clock and timestamp values. Under most Unix versions the
epoch is 00:00:00 GMT, January 1, 1970; under VMS, it's 00:00:00 of November
17, 1858 (base date of the U.S. Naval Observatory's ephemerides); on a
Macintosh, it's the midnight beginning January 1 1904. System time is
measured in seconds or {tick}s past the epoch. Weird problems may ensue when
the clock wraps around (see {wrap around}), which is not necessarily a rare
event; on systems counting 10 ticks per second, a signed 32-bit count of
ticks is good only for 6.8 years. The 1-tick-per-second clock of Unix is good
only until January 18, 2038, assuming at least some software continues to
consider it signed and that word lengths don't increase by then. see also
{wall time}. Microsoft Windows, on the other hand, has an epoch problem every
49.7 days - but this is seldom noticed as Windows is almost incapable of
staying up continuously for that long. :epsilon: [see {delta}] 1. n. A small
quantity of anything. "The cost is epsilon." 2. adj. Very small, negligible;
less than {marginal}. "We can get this feature for epsilon cost." 3. `within
epsilon of': close enough to be indistinguishable for all practical purposes,
even closer than being `within delta of'. "That's not what I asked for, but
it's within epsilon of what I wanted." Alternatively, it may mean not close
enough, but very little is required to get it there: "My program is within
epsilon of working." :epsilon squared: n. A quantity even smaller than
{epsilon}, as small in comparison to epsilon as epsilon is to something
normal; completely negligible. If you buy a supercomputer for a million
dollars, the cost of the thousand-dollar terminal to go with it is {epsilon},
and the cost of the ten-dollar cable to connect them is epsilon squared.
Compare {lost in the underflow}, {lost in the noise}. :era: n. Syn. {epoch}.
Webster's Unabridged makes these words almost synonymous, but `era' more
often connotes a span of time rather than a point in time, whereas the
reverse is true for {epoch}. The {epoch} usage is recommended. :Eric
Conspiracy: n. A shadowy group of mustachioed hackers named Eric first
pinpointed as a sinister conspiracy by an infamous talk.bizarre posting ca.
1987; this was doubtless influenced by the numerous `Eric' jokes in the Monty
Python oeuvre. There do indeed seem to be considerably more mustachioed Erics
in hackerdom than the frequency of these three traits can account for unless
they are correlated in some arcane way. Well-known examples include Eric
Allman (he of the `Allman style' described under {indent style}) and Erik
Fair (co-author of NNTP); your editor has heard from more than sixty others
by email, and the organization line `Eric Conspiracy Secret Laboratories' now
emanates regularly from more than one site. see the Eric Conspiracy Web Page
at `http://www.ccil.org/~esr/ecsl/' for full details. :Eris: /e'ris/ n. The
Greek goddess of Chaos, Discord, Confusion, and Things You Know Not Of; her
name was latinized to Discordia and she was worshiped by that name in Rome.
Not a very friendly deity in the Classical original, she was reinvented as a
more benign personification of creative anarchy starting in 1959 by the
adherents of {Discordianism} and has since been a semi-serious subject of
veneration in several `fringe' cultures, including hackerdom. see
{Discordianism}, {Church of the SubGenius}. :erotics: /ee-ro'tiks/ n.
[Helsinki University of Technology, Finland] n. English-language university
slang for electronics. Often used by hackers in Helsinki, maybe because good
electronics excites them and makes them warm. :error 33: [XEROX PARC] n. 1.
Predicating one research effort upon the success of another. 2. Allowing your
own research effort to be placed on the critical path of some other project
(be it a research effort or not). :eurodemo: /yoor'o-dem`-o/ a {demo}, sense
4 :evil: adj. As used by hackers, implies that some system, program, person,
or institution is sufficiently maldesigned as to be not worth the bother of
dealing with. Unlike the adjectives in the
{cretinous}/{losing}/{brain-damaged} series, `evil' does not imply
incompetence or bad design, but rather a set of goals or design criteria
fatally incompatible with the speaker's. This usage is more an esthetic and
engineering judgment than a moral one in the mainstream sense. "We thought
about adding a {Blue Glue} interface but decided it was too evil to deal
with." "{TECO} is neat, but it can be pretty evil if you're prone to typos."
Often pronounced with the first syllable lengthened, as /eeee'vil/. Compare
{evil and rude}. :evil and rude: adj. Both {evil} and {rude}, but with the
additional connotation that the rudeness was due to malice rather than
incompetence. Thus, for example: Microsoft's Windows NT is evil because it's
a competent implementation of a bad design; it's rude because it's
gratuitously incompatible with Unix in places where compatibility would have
been as easy and effective to do; but it's evil and rude because the
incompatibilities are apparently there not to fix design bugs in Unix but
rather to lock hapless customers and developers into the Microsoft way.
Hackish evil and rude is close to the mainstream sense of `evil'. :Evil
Empire: n. [from Ronald Reagan's famous characterization of the communist
Soviet Union] Formerly {IBM}, now {Microsoft}. Functionally, the company most
hackers love to hate at any given time. Hackers like to see themselves as
romantic rebels against the Evil Empire, and frequently adopt this role to
the point of ascribing rather more power and malice to the Empire than it
actually has. see also {Borg} and search for Evil Empire
(http://pages.prodigy.net/rkusnery/amsind.html) pages on the Web. :exa-:
/ek's*/ pref. [SI] see {{quantifiers}}. :examining the entrails: n. The
process of {grovel}ling through a {core dump} or hex image in an attempt to
discover the bug that brought a program or system down. The reference is to
divination from the entrails of a sacrified animal. Compare {runes},
{incantation}, {black art}, {desk check}. :EXCH: /eks'ch*/ or /eksch/ vt. To
exchange two things, each for the other; to swap places. If you point to two
people sitting down and say "Exch!", you are asking them to trade places.
EXCH, meaning EXCHange, was originally the name of a PDP-10 instruction that
exchanged the contents of a register and a memory location. Many newer
hackers are probably thinking instead of the {{PostScript}} exchange operator
(which is usually written in lowercase). :excl: /eks'kl/ n. Abbreviation for
`exclamation point'. see {bang}, {shriek}, {{ASCII}}. :EXE: /eks'ee/ or
/eek'see/ or /E-X-E/ n. An executable binary file. Some operating systems
(notably MS-DOS, VMS, and TWENEX) use the extension .EXE to mark such files.
This usage is also occasionally found among Unix programmers even though Unix
executables don't have any required suffix. :exec: /eg-zek'/ or /eks'ek/ vt.,
n. 1. [Unix: from `execute'] Synonym for {chain}, derives from the `exec(2)'
call. 2. [from `executive'] obs. The command interpreter for an {OS} (see
{shell}); term esp. used around mainframes, and prob. derived from UNIVAC's
archaic