 EXE: /eks'ee/ An executable binary file. Some operating systems (notably
MS-DOS, VMS, and TOPS-20/TWENEX) use the extension .EXE to mark such files.
This usage is also occasionally found among UNIX programmers even though UNIX
executables don't have any required extension (in fact, the term `extension'
in this sense is not part of UNIX jargon). exec: /eg-zek'/ [shortened from
`executive' or `execute'] vt.,n. 1. [UNIX] Synonym for {chain}, derives from
the `exec(2)' call. 2. obs. The command interpreter for an {OS} (see
{shell}); term esp. used on mainframes, and prob. derived from UNIVAC's
archaic EXEC 2 and EXEC 8 operating systems. 3. At IBM, the equivalent of a
{bat file} or shell command file (this is among VM/CMS users). exercise, left
as an: [from technical books] Used to complete a proof when one doesn't mind
a {handwave}, or to avoid one entirely. The complete phrase is: "The proof
(or rest) is left as an exercise for the reader." This comment `has'
occasionally been attached to unsolved research problems by authors possessed
of either an evil sense of humor or a vast faith in the capabilities of their
audiences. eyeball search: n. To look for something in a mass of code or data
{by hand}, as opposed to using some sort of pattern matcher like {grep} or
any other automated search tool. Also called a {vgrep}; compare {vdiff}. F -
fab: /fab/ [from v. fabricate] 1. To produce chips from a design that may
have been created by someone at another company. `Fab'bing chips based on the
designs of others is the activity of a {silicon foundry}. 2. `fab line': the
production system (lithography, diffusion, etching, etc.) for chips at a chip
manufacturer. Different `fab lines' are run with different process
parameters, die sizes, or technologies, or simply to provide more
manufacturing volume. face time: n. Time spent interacting with somebody
face-to-face (as opposed to via electronic links). "Oh, yeah, I spent some
face time with him at the last Usenix." fall over: [IBM] vi. Yet another
synonym for {crash} or {lose}. `Fall over hard' equates to {crash and burn}.
fall through: vt. 1. To exit a loop by exhaustion, i.e. by having fulfilled
its exit condition rather than via a break or exception condition that exits
from the middle of it. This usage appears to be *really* old, as in dating
from the `40s and `50s. It may no longer be live slang. 2. To fail a test
that would have passed control to a subroutine or other distant portion of
code. 3. In C, `fall-through' is said to occur when the flow of execution in
a switch statement reaches a `case' label other than by jumping there from
the switch header, passing a point where one would normally expect to find a
`break'. A trivial example: switch (color) { case GREEN: do_green(); break;
case PINK: do_pink(); /* FALL THROUGH */ case RED: do_red(); break; default:
do_blue(); break; } The effect of this code is to `do_green()' when color is
`GREEN', `do_red()' when color is `RED', `do_blue()' on any other color than
PINK, and (this is the important part) `do_pink()' and *then* `do_red()' when
color is `PINK'. Fall-through is {considered harmful} by some; among those
who use it, it is considered good practice to include a comment highlighting
the fall through, at the point one would normally expect a break. fandango on
core: [UNIX/C hackers, from the Mexican dance] n. In C, a wild pointer that
runs out of bounds causing a {core dump}, or corrupts the `malloc(3)' {arena}
in such a way as to cause mysterious failures later on, is sometimes said to
have `done a fandango on core'. On low-end personal machines without an MMU,
this can corrupt the OS itself, causing massive lossage. Other frenetic
dances such as the rhumba, cha-cha, or watusi may be substituted. see
{aliasing bug}, {precedence lossage}, {smash the stack}, {memory leak},
{overrun screw}, {core}.