 :eyeball search: n.,v. To look for something in a mass of code or data with
one's own native optical sensors, as opposed to using some sort of pattern
matching software like {grep} or any other automated search tool. Also called
a {vgrep}; compare {vdiff}. F face time factor fairings fall over fall
through fan fandango on core FAQ FAQ list FAQL faradize farkled farm fascist
fat electrons fat pipe fat-finger faulty fear and loathing feature feature
creature feature creep feature key feature shock featurectomy feep feeper
feeping creature feeping creaturism feetch feetch fence fencepost error
fiber-seeking backhoe FidoNet field circus field servoid file signature filk
film at 11 filter Finagle's Law fine finger finger trouble finger-pointing
syndrome finn firebottle firefighting firehose syndrome firewall code
firewall machine fireworks mode firmware fish FISH queue fisking FITNR fix
FIXME flag flag day flaky flamage flame flame bait flame on flame war flamer
flap flarp flash crowd flat flat-ASCII flat-file flatten flavor flavorful
flippy flood flowchart flower key flush flypage Flyspeck 3 flytrap FM fnord
FOAF FOD fold case followup fontology foo foobar fool fool file Foonly
footprint for free for the rest of us for values of fora foreground fork fork
bomb forked Formosa's Law Fortrash fortune cookie forum fossil four-color
glossies frag fragile Frankenputer fred Fred Foobar frednet free software
freeware freeze fried frink friode fritterware frob frobnicate frobnitz frog
frogging front end frotz frotzed frowney FRS fry fscking FSF -fu FUBAR fuck
me harder FUD FUD wars fudge fudge factor fuel up Full Monty fum functino
funky funny money furrfu