 FAQ list: /F-A-Q list/ [USENET] n. A compendium of accumulated lore, posted
periodically to high-volume newsgroups in an attempt to forestall Frequently
Asked Questions. This lexicon itself serves as a good example of a collection
of one kind of lore, although it is far too big for a regular posting.
Examples: "What is the proper type of NULL?" and "What's that funny name for
the `#' character?" are both Frequently Asked Questions. Several extant FAQ
lists do (or should) make reference to the Jargon File (the on-line version
of this lexicon). FAQL: /fa'kl/ n. Syn. {FAQ list}. farming: [Adelaide
University, Australia] n. What the heads of a disk drive are said to do when
they plow little furrows in the magnetic media. Associated with a {crash}.
Typically used as follows: "Oh no, the machine has just crashed; I hope the
hard drive hasn't gone {farming} again." fascist: adj. 1. Said of a computer
system with excessive or annoying security barriers, usage limits, or access
policies. The implication is that said policies are preventing hackers from
getting interesting work done. The variant `fascistic' seems to have been
preferred at MIT, poss. by analogy with `touristic' (see {tourist}). 2. In
the design of languages and other software tools, `the fascist alternative'
is the most restrictive and structured way of capturing a particular
function; the implication is that this may be desirable in order to simplify
the implementation or provide tighter error checking. Compare
{bondage-and-discipline language}, but that term is global rather than local.
faulty: adj. Non-functional; buggy. Same denotation as {bletcherous},
{losing}, q.v., but the connotation is much milder. fd leak: /ef dee leek/ n.
A kind of programming bug analogous to a {core leak}, in which a program
fails to close file descriptors (`fd's) after file operations are completed,
and thus eventually runs out of them. see {leak}. fear and loathing: [from
Hunter Thompson] n. A state inspired by the prospect of dealing with certain
real-world systems and standards that are totally {brain-damaged} but
ubiquitous --- Intel 8086s, or {COBOL}, or {{EBCDIC}}, or any {IBM} machine
except the Rios (a.k.a. the RS/6000). "Ack! They want PCs to be able to talk
to the AI machine. Fear and loathing time!" feature: n. 1. A good property or
behavior (as of a program). Whether it was intended or not is immaterial. 2.
An intended property or behavior (as of a program). Whether it is good or not
is immaterial (but if bad, it is also a {misfeature}). 3. A surprising
property or behavior; in particular, one that is purposely inconsistent
because it works better that way --- such an inconsistency is therefore a
{feature} and not a {bug}. This kind of feature is sometimes called a
{miswart}; see that entry for a classic example. 4. A property or behavior
that is gratuitous or unnecessary, though perhaps also impressive or cute.
For example, one feature of Common LISP's `format' function is the ability to
print numbers in two different Roman-numeral formats (see {bells, whistles,
and gongs}). 5. A property or behavior that was put in to help someone else
but that happens to be in your way. 6. A bug that has been documented. To
call something a feature sometimes means the author of the program did not
consider the particular case, and that the program responded in a way that
was unexpected but not strictly incorrect. A standard joke is that a bug can
be turned into a {feature} simply by documenting it (then theoretically no
one can complain about it because it's in the manual), or even by simply
declaring it to be good. "That's not a bug, that's a feature!" is a common
catchphrase. see also {feetch feetch}, {creeping featurism}, {wart}, {green
lightning}. The relationship among bugs, features, misfeatures, warts, and
miswarts might be clarified by the following hypothetical exchange between
two hackers on an airliner: A: "This seat doesn't recline." B: "That's not a
bug, that's a feature. There is an emergency exit door built around the
window behind you, and the route has to be kept clear." A: "Oh. Then it's a
misfeature; they should have increased the spacing between rows here." B:
"Yes. But if they'd increased spacing in only one section it would have been
a wart --- they would've had to make nonstandard-length ceiling panels to fit
over the displaced seats." A: "A miswart, actually. If they increased spacing
throughout they'd lose several rows and a chunk out of the profit margin. So
unequal spacing would actually be the Right Thing." B: "Indeed."
{Undocumented feature} is a common, allegedly humorous euphemism for a {bug}.
feature creature: [poss. fr. slang `creature feature' for a horror movie] n.
One who loves to add features to designs or programs, perhaps at the expense
of coherence, concision, or {taste}. see also {feeping creaturism}, {creeping
featurism}. feature shock: [from Alvin Toffler's book title `Future Shock']
n. A user's (or programmer's!) confusion when confronted with a package that
has too many features and poor introductory material. featurectomy:
/fee`ch*r-ek't*-mee/ n. The act of removing a feature from a program.
Featurectomies come in two flavors, the `righteous' and the `reluctant'.
Righteous featurectomies are performed because the remover believes the
program would be more elegant without the feature, or there is already an
equivalent and better way to achieve the same end. (This is not quite the
same thing as removing a {misfeature}.) Reluctant featurectomies are
performed to satisfy some external constraint such as code size or execution
speed. feep: /feep/ 1. n. The soft electronic `bell' sound of a display
terminal (except for a VT-52); a beep (in fact, the microcomputer world seems
to prefer {beep}). 2. vi. To cause the display to make a feep sound. ASR-33s
(the original TTYs) do not feep; they have mechanical bells that ring.
Alternate forms: {beep}, `bleep', or just about anything suitably
onomatopoeic. (Jeff MacNelly, in his comic strip "Shoe", uses the word `eep'
for sounds made by computer terminals and video games; this is perhaps the
closest written approximation yet.) The term `breedle' was sometimes heard at
SAIL, where the terminal bleepers are not particularly soft (they sound more
like the musical equivalent of a raspberry or Bronx cheer; for a close
approximation, imagine the sound of a Star Trek communicator's beep lasting
for 5 seconds). The `feeper' on a VT-52 has been compared to the sound of a
'52 Chevy stripping its gears. see also {ding}. feeper: /fee'pr/ n. The
device in a terminal or workstation (usually a loudspeaker of some kind) that
makes the {feep} sound. feeping creature: [from {feeping creaturism}] n. An
unnecessary feature; a bit of {chrome} that, in the speaker's judgment, is
the camel's nose for a whole horde of new features. feeping creaturism:
/fee'ping kree`ch*r-izm/ n. A deliberate spoonerism for {creeping featurism},
meant to imply that the system or program in question has become a misshapen
creature of hacks. This term isn't really well defined, but it sounds so neat
that most hackers have said or heard it. It is probably reinforced by an
image of terminals prowling about in the dark making their customary noises.
feetch feetch: /feech feech/ interj. If someone tells you about some new
improvement to a program, you might respond: "Feetch, feetch!" The meaning of
this depends critically on vocal inflection. With enthusiasm, it means
something like "Boy, that's great! What a great hack!" Grudgingly or with
obvious doubt, it means "I don't know; it sounds like just one more
unnecessary and complicated thing". With a tone of resignation, it means,
"Well, I'd rather keep it simple, but I suppose it has to be done". fence: n.
1. A sequence of one or more distinguished ({out-of-band}) characters (or
other data items), used to delimit a piece of data intended to be treated as
a unit (the computer-science literature calls this a `sentinel'). The NUL
(ASCII 0000000) character that terminates strings in C is a fence. Hex FF is
probably the most common fence character after NUL. see {zigamorph}. 2.
[among users of optimizing compilers] Any technique, usually exploiting
knowledge about the compiler, that blocks certain optimizations. Used when
explicit mechanisms are not available or are overkill. Typically a hack: "I
call a dummy procedure there to force a flush of the optimizer's
register-coloring info" can be expressed by the shorter "That's a fence
procedure". fencepost error: n. 1. A problem with the discrete equivalent of
a boundary condition. Often exhibited in programs by iterative loops. From
the following problem: "If you build a fence 100 feet long with posts 10 feet
apart, how many posts do you need?" Either 9 or 11 is a better answer than
the obvious 10. For example, suppose you have a long list or array of items,
and want to process items m through n; how many items are there? The obvious
answer is n - m, but that is off by one; the right answer is n - m + 1. A
program that used the `obvious' formula would have a fencepost error in it.
see also {zeroth} and {off-by-one error}, and note that not all off-by-one
errors are fencepost errors. The game of Musical Chairs involves a
catastrophic off-by-one error where N people try to sit in N - 1 chairs, but
it's not a fencepost error. Fencepost errors come from counting things rather
than the spaces between them, or vice versa, or by neglecting to consider
whether one should count one or both ends of a row. 2. Occasionally, an error
induced by unexpectedly regular spacing of inputs, which can (for instance)
screw up your hash table. fepped out: /fept owt/ adj. The Symbolics 3600 Lisp
Machine has a Front-End Processor called a `FEP' (compare sense 2 of {box}).
When the main processor gets {wedged}, the FEP takes control of the keyboard
and screen. Such a machine is said to have `fepped out'. FidoNet: n. A
worldwide hobbyist network of personal computers which exchange mail,
discussion groups, and files. Founded in 1984 and originally consisting only
of IBM PCs and compatibles, FidoNet now includes such diverse machines as
Apple ][s, Ataris, Amigas, and UNIX systems. Though it is much younger than
{USENET}, FidoNet is already (in early 1991) a significant fraction of
USENET's size at some 8000 systems. field circus: [a derogatory pun on `field
service'] n. The field service organization of any hardware manufacturer, but
especially DEC. There is an entire genre of jokes about DEC field circus
engineers: Q: How can you recognize a DEC field circus engineer with a flat
tire? A: He's changing each tire to see which one is flat. Q: How can you
recognize a DEC field circus engineer who is out of gas? A: He's changing
each tire to see which one is flat. There is also the `Field Circus Cheer'
(from the {plan file} for DEC on MIT-AI): Maynard! Maynard! Don't mess with
us! We're mean and we're tough! If you get us confused We'll screw up your
stuff. (DEC's service HQ is located in Maynard, Massachusetts.) field
servoid: [play on `android'] /fee'ld ser'voyd/ n. Representative of a field
service organization (see {field circus}). This has many of the implications
of {droid}. Fight-o-net: [FidoNet] n. Deliberate distortion of {FidoNet},
often applied after a flurry of {flamage} in a particular {echo}, especially
the SYSOP echo or Fidonews (see {'Snooze}). File Attach: [FidoNet] 1. n. A
file sent along with a mail message from one BBS to another. 2. vt. Sending
someone a file by using the File Attach option in a BBS mailer. File Request:
[FidoNet] 1. n. The {FidoNet} equivalent of {FTP}, in which one BBS system
automatically dials another and {snarf}s one or more files. Files are often
announced as being "available for {FReq}" in the same way that files are
announced as being "available for/by anonymous FTP" on the Internet. 2. vt.
The act of getting a copy of a file by using the File Request option of the
BBS mailer. filk: /filk/ [from SF fandom, where a typo for `folk' was adopted
as a new word] n.,v. A `filk' is a popular or folk song with lyrics revised
or completely new lyrics, intended for humorous effect when read and/or to be
sung late at night at SF conventions. There is a flourishing subgenre of
these called `computer filks', written by hackers and often containing rather
sophisticated technical humor. see {double bucky} for an example. film at 11:
[MIT: in parody of TV newscasters] Used in conversation to announce ordinary
events, with a sarcastic implication that these events are earth-shattering.
"{{ITS}} crashes; film at 11." "Bug found in scheduler; film at 11." filter:
[orig. {{UNIX}}, now also in {{MS-DOS}}] n. A program that processes an input
data stream into an output data stream in some well-defined way, and does no
I/O to anywhere else except possibly on error conditions; one designed to be
used as a stage in a `pipeline' (see {plumbing}). Finagle's Law: n. The
generalized or `folk' version of {Murphy's Law}, fully named "Finagle's Law
of Dynamic Negatives" and usually rendered "Anything that can go wrong,
will". One variant favored among hackers is "The perversity of the Universe
tends towards a maximum" (but see also {Hanlon's Razor}). The label
`Finagle's Law' was popularized by SF author Larry Niven in several stories
depicting a frontier culture of asteroid miners; this `Belter' culture
professed a religion and/or running joke involving the worship of the dread
god Finagle and his mad prophet Murphy. fine: [WPI] adj. Good, but not good
enough to be {cuspy}. The word `fine' is used elsewhere, of course, but
without the implicit comparison to the higher level implied by {cuspy}.
finger: [WAITS, via BSD UNIX] 1. n. A program that displays a particular user
or all users logged on the system or a remote system. Typically shows full
name, last login time, idle time, terminal line, and terminal location (where
applicable). May also display a {plan file} left by the user. 2. vt. To apply
finger to a username. 3. vt. By extension, to check a human's current state
by any means. "Foodp?" "T!" "OK, finger Lisa and see if she's idle." 4. Any
picture (composed of ASCII characters) depicting `the finger'. Originally a
humorous component of one's plan file to deter the curious fingerer (sense
2), it has entered the arsenal of some {flamer}s. finger-pointing syndrome:
n. All-too-frequent result of bugs, esp. in new or experimental
configurations. The hardware vendor points a finger at the software. The
software vendor points a finger at the hardware. All the poor users get is
the finger. firebottle: n. A large, primitive, power-hungry active electrical
device, similar in function to a FET but constructed out of glass, metal, and
vacuum. Characterized by high cost, low density, low reliability,
high-temperature operation, and high power dissipation. Sometimes mistakenly
called a `tube' in the U.S. or a `valve' in England; another hackish term is
{glassfet}. firefighting: n. 1. What sysadmins have to do to correct sudden
operational problems. An opposite of hacking. "Been hacking your new
newsreader?" "No, a power glitch hosed the network and I spent the whole
afternoon fighting fires." 2. The act of throwing lots of manpower and late
nights at a project, esp. to get it out before deadline. see also {gang
bang}, {Mongolian Hordes technique}; however, the term `firefighting'
connotes that the effort is going into chasing bugs rather than adding
features. firewall code: n. The code you put in a system (say, a telephone
switch) to make sure that the users can't do any damage. Since users always
want to be able to do everything but never want to suffer for any mistakes,
the construction of a firewall is a question not only of defensive coding but
also of interface presentation, so that users don't even get curious about
those corners of a system where they can burn themselves. firewall machine:
n. A dedicated gateway machine with special security precautions on it, used
to service outside network connections and dial-in lines. The idea is to
protect a cluster of more loosely administered machines hidden behind it from
{cracker}s. The typical firewall is an inexpensive micro-based UNIX box kept
clean of critical data, with a bunch of modems and public network ports on it
but just one carefully watched connection back to the rest of the cluster.
The special precautions may include threat monitoring, callback, and even a
complete {iron box} keyable to particular incoming IDs or activity patterns.
Syn. {flytrap}, {Venus flytrap}. fireworks mode: n. The mode a machine is
sometimes said to be in when it is performing a {crash and burn} operation.
firmy: /fer'mee/ Syn. {stiffy} (a 3.5-inch floppy disk). fish: [Adelaide
University, Australia] n. 1. Another metasyntactic variable. see {foo}.
Derived originally from the Monty Python skit in the middle of "The Meaning
of Life" entitled "Find the Fish". 2. A pun for `microfiche'. A microfiche
file cabinet may be referred to as a `fish tank'.