 :feature key: n. [common] The Macintosh key with the cloverleaf graphic on
its keytop; sometimes referred to as flower, pretzel, clover, propeller,
beanie (an apparent reference to the major feature of a propeller beanie),
{splat}, open-apple or (officially, in Mac documentation) the command key. In
French, the term papillon (butterfly) has been reported. The proliferation of
terms for this creature may illustrate one subtle peril of iconic interfaces.
Many people have been mystified by the cloverleaf-like symbol that appears on
the feature key. Its oldest name is `cross of St. Hannes', but it occurs in
pre-Christian Viking art as a decorative motif. Throughout Scandinavia today
the road agencies use it to mark sites of historical interest. Apple picked
up the symbol from an early Mac developer who happened to be Swedish. Apple
documentation gives the translation "interesting feature"! There is some
dispute as to the proper (Swedish) name of this symbol. It technically stands
for the word sevärdhet (thing worth seeing); many of these are old churches.
Some Swedes report as an idiom for the sign the word kyrka, cognate to
English `church' and pronounced (roughly) /chur´ka/ in modern Swedish. Others
say this is nonsense. Other idioms reported for the sign are runa (rune) or
runsten /roon´stn/ (runestone), derived from the fact that many of the
interesting features are Viking rune-stones. The term fornminne /foorn´min'@/
(relic of antiquity, ancient monument) is also reported, especially among
those who think that the Mac itself is a relic of antiquity.