 FEATURE n. 1. An intended property or behavior (as of a program). Whether it
is good or not is immaterial. 2. A good property or behavior (as of a
program). Whether it was intended or not is immaterial. 3. A surprising
property or behavior; in particular, one that is purposely inconsistent
because it works better that way. For example, in some versions of the EMACS
text editor, the "transpose characters" command exchanges the two characters
on either side of the cursor on the screen, *except* when the cursor is at
the end of a line, in which case the two characters before the curspor are
exchanged. While this behavior is perhaps surprising, and certainly
inconsistent, it has been found through extensive experimentation to be what
most users want; the inconsistency is therefore a FEATURE and not a BUG. 4. A
property or behavior that is gratuitous or unnecessary, though perhaps also
impressive or cute. For example, one feature of the MACLISP language is the
ability to print numbers as Roman numerals. see BELLS AND WHISTLES. 5. A
property or behavior that was put in to help someone else but that happens to
be in your way. 6. A BUG that has been documented. To call something a
feature sometimes means the author of the program did not consider the
particular case, and the program responded in a way that was unexpected, but
not strictly incorrect. A standard joke is that a BUG can be turned into a
FEATURE simply by documenting it (then theoretically no one can complain
about it because it's in the manual), or even by simply declaring it to be
good. "That's not a bug, that's a feature!" see also FEETCH FEETCH.