 FISH queue: [acronym, by analogy with FIFO (First In, First Out)] n. `First
In, Still Here'. A joking way of pointing out that processing of a particular
sequence of events or requests has stopped dead. Also `FISH mode' and
`FISHnet'; the latter may be applied to any network that is running really
slowly or exhibiting extreme flakiness. fix: n.,v. What one does when a
problem has been reported too many times to be ignored. flag: n. A variable
or quantity that can take on one of two values; a bit, particularly one that
is used to indicate one of two outcomes or is used to control which of two
things is to be done. "This flag controls whether to clear the screen before
printing the message." "The program status word contains several flag bits."
Used of humans analogously to {bit}. see also {hidden flag}, {mode bit}. flag
day: n. A software change that is neither forward- nor backward-compatible,
and which is costly to make and costly to reverse. "Can we install that
without causing a flag day for all users?" This term has nothing to do with
the use of the word {flag} to mean a variable that has two values. It came
into use when a massive change was made to the {{Multics}} timesharing system
to convert from the old ASCII code to the new one; this was scheduled for
Flag Day (a U.S. holiday), June 14, 1966. see also {backward combatability}.
flaky: adj. (var sp. `flakey') Subject to frequent {lossage}. This use is of
course related to the common slang use of the word to describe a person as
eccentric, crazy, or just unreliable. A system that is flaky is working, sort
of --- enough that you are tempted to try to use it --- but fails frequently
enough that the odds in favor of finishing what you start are low.
Commonwealth hackish prefers {dodgy} or {wonky}. flamage: /flay'm*j/ n.
Flaming verbiage, esp. high-noise, low-signal postings to {USENET} or other
electronic {fora}. Often in the phrase `the usual flamage'. `Flaming' is the
act itself; `flamage' the content; a `flame' is a single flaming message. see
{flame}. flame: 1. vi. To post an email message intended to insult and
provoke. 2. vi. To speak incessantly and/or rabidly on some relatively
uninteresting subject or with a patently ridiculous attitude. 3. vt. Either
of senses 1 or 2, directed with hostility at a particular person or people.
4. n. An instance of flaming. When a discussion degenerates into useless
controversy, one might tell the participants "Now you're just flaming" or
"Stop all that flamage!" to try to get them to cool down (so to speak).
USENETter Marc Ramsey, who was at WPI from 1972 to 1976, adds: "I am 99%
certain that the use of `flame' originated at WPI. Those who made a nuisance
of themselves insisting that they needed to use a TTY for `real work' came to
be known as `flaming asshole lusers'. Other particularly annoying people
became `flaming asshole ravers', which shortened to `flaming ravers', and
ultimately `flamers'. I remember someone picking up on the Human Torch pun,
but I don't think `flame on/off' was ever much used at WPI." see also
{asbestos}. The term may have been independently invented at several
different places; it is also reported that `flaming' was in use to mean
something like `interminably drawn-out semi-serious discussions' (late-night
bull sessions) at Carleton College during 1968--1971. flame bait: n. A
posting intended to trigger a {flame war}, or one that invites flames in
reply. flame on: vi.,interj. 1. To begin to {flame}. The punning reference to
Marvel Comics's Human Torch is no longer widely recognized. 2. To continue to
flame. see {rave}, {burble}. flame war: n. (var. `flamewar') An acrimonious
dispute, especially when conducted on a public electronic forum such as
{USENET}. flamer: n. One who habitually {flame}s. Said esp. of obnoxious
{USENET} personalities. flap: vt. 1. To unload a DECtape (so it goes flap,
flap, flap...). Old-time hackers at MIT tell of the days when the disk was
device 0 and {microtape}s were 1, 2,... and attempting to flap device 0 would
instead start a motor banging inside a cabinet near the disk. 2. By
extension, to unload any magnetic tape. see also {macrotape}. Modern
cartridge tapes no longer actually flap, but the usage has remained. flarp:
/flarp/ [Rutgers University] n. Yet another metasyntactic variable (see
{foo}). Among those who use it, it is associated with a legend that any
program not containing the word `flarp' somewhere will not work. The legend
is discreetly silent on the reliability of programs which *do* contain the
magic word. flat: adj. 1. Lacking any complex internal structure. "That
{bitty box} has only a flat filesystem, not a hierarchical one." The verb
form is {flatten}. 2. Said of a memory architecture (like that of the VAX or
680x0) that is one big linear address space (typically with each possible
value of a processor register corresponding to a unique core address), as
opposed to a `segmented' architecture (like that of the 80x86) in which
addresses are composed from a base-register/offset pair (segmented designs
are generally considered {cretinous}). flat-ASCII: adj. Said of a text file
that contains only 7-bit ASCII characters and uses only ASCII-standard
control characters (that is, has no embedded codes specific to a particular
text formatter or markup language, and no {meta}-characters). Syn.
{plain-ASCII}. Compare {flat-file}. flat-file: adj. A {flatten}ed
representation of some database or tree or network structure as a single file
from which the structure could implicitly be rebuilt, esp. one in
{flat-ASCII} form. flatten: vt. To remove structural information, esp. to
filter something with an implicit tree structure into a simple sequence of
leaves; also tends to imply mapping to {flat-ASCII}. "This code flattens an
expression with parentheses into an equivalent {canonical} form." flavor: n.
1. Variety, type, kind. "DDT commands come in two flavors." "These lights
come in two flavors, big red ones and small green ones." see {vanilla}. 2.
The attribute that causes something to be {flavorful}. Usually used in the
phrase "yields additional flavor". "This convention yields additional flavor
by allowing one to print text either right-side-up or upside-down." see
{vanilla}. This usage was certainly reinforced by the terminology of quantum
chromodynamics, in which quarks (the constituents of, e.g., protons) come in
six flavors (up, down, strange, charm, top, bottom) and three colors (red,
blue, green) --- however, hackish use of `flavor' at MIT predated QCD. 3. The
term for `class' (in the object-oriented sense) in the LISP Machine Flavors
system. Though the Flavors design has been superseded (notably by the Common
LISP CLOS facility), the term `flavor' is still used as a general synonym for
`class' by some LISP hackers. flavorful: adj. Full of {flavor}; esthetically
pleasing. see {random} and {losing} for antonyms. see also the entries for
{taste} and {elegant}. flippy: /flip'ee/ n. A single-sided floppy disk
altered for double-sided use by addition of a second write-notch, so called
because it must be flipped over for the second side to be accessible. No
longer common. flowchart:: [techspeak] n. An archaic form of visual
control-flow specification employing arrows and `speech balloons' of various
shapes. Hackers never use flowcharts, consider them extremely silly, and
associate them with {COBOL} programmers, {card walloper}s, and other lower
forms of life. This is because (from a hacker's point of view) they are no
easier to read than code, are less precise, and tend to fall out of sync with
the code (so that they either obfuscate it rather than explaining it or
require extra maintenance effort that doesn't improve the code). see also
{pdl}, sense 3. flower key: [Mac users] n. see {command key}. flush: v. 1. To
delete something, usually superfluous, or to abort an operation. "All that
nonsense has been flushed." 2. [UNIX/C] To force buffered I/O to disk, as
with an `fflush(3)' call. This is *not* an abort or deletion as in sense 1,
but a demand for early completion! 3. To leave at the end of a day's work (as
opposed to leaving for a meal). "I'm going to flush now." "Time to flush." 4.
To exclude someone from an activity, or to ignore a person. `Flush' was
standard ITS terminology for aborting an output operation; one spoke of the
text that would have been printed, but was not, as having been flushed. It is
speculated that this term arose from a vivid image of flushing unwanted
characters by hosing down the internal output buffer, washing the characters
away before they can be printed. The UNIX/C usage, on the other hand, was
propagated by the `fflush(3)' call in C's standard I/O library (though it is
reported to have been in use among BLISS programmers at DEC and on Honeywell
and IBM machines as far back as 1965). UNIX/C hackers find the ITS usage
confusing, and vice versa. Flyspeck 3: n. Standard name for any font that is
so tiny as to be unreadable (by analogy with such names as `Helvetica 10' for
10-point Helvetica). Legal boilerplate is usually printed in Flyspeck 3.
flytrap: n. see {firewall machine}.