 :flame: 1. vi. To post an email message intended to insult and provoke. 2.
vi. To speak incessantly and/or rabidly on some relatively uninteresting
subject or with a patently ridiculous attitude. 3. vt. Either of senses 1 or
2, directed with hostility at a particular person or people. 4. n. An
instance of flaming. When a discussion degenerates into useless controversy,
one might tell the participants "Now you're just flaming" or "Stop all that
flamage!" to try to get them to cool down (so to speak). USENETter Marc
Ramsey, who was at WPI from 1972 to 1976, adds: "I am 99% certain that the
use of `flame' originated at WPI. Those who made a nuisance of themselves
insisting that they needed to use a TTY for `real work' came to be known as
`flaming asshole lusers'. Other particularly annoying people became `flaming
asshole ravers', which shortened to `flaming ravers', and ultimately
`flamers'. I remember someone picking up on the Human Torch pun, but I don't
think `flame on/off' was ever much used at WPI." see also {asbestos}. The
term may have been independently invented at several different places; it is
also reported that `flaming' was in use to mean something like `interminably
drawn-out semi-serious discussions' (late-night bull sessions) at Carleton
College during 1968--1971. It's possible that the hackish sense of `flame' is
much older than that. The poet Chaucer was also what passed for a wizard
hacker in his time; he wrote a treatise on the astrolabe, the most advanced
computing device of the day. In Chaucer's `Troilus and Cressida', Cressida
laments her inability to grasp the proof of a particular mathematical
theorem; her uncle Pandarus then observes that it's called "the fleminge of
wrecches." This phrase seems to have been intended in context as "that which
puts the wretches to flight" but was probably just as ambiguous in Middle
English as "the flaming of wretches" would be today. One suspects that
Chaucer would be right at home on USENET.