 FOD: v. [Abbreviation for `Finger of Death', originally a spell-name from
fantasy gaming] To terminate with extreme prejudice and with no regard for
other people. From {MUD}s where the wizard command `FOD <player>' results in
the immediate and total death of <player>, usually as punishment for
obnoxious behavior. This migrated to other circumstances, such as "I'm going
to fod that process which is burning all the cycles.". Compare {gun}. fold
case: v. see {smash case}. This term tends to be used more by people who
don't *mind* that their tools smash case. It also connotes that case is
ignored but case distinctions in data processed by the tool in question
aren't destroyed. followup: n. On USENET, a {posting} generated in response
to another posting (as opposed to a {reply}, which goes by email rather than
being broadcast). Followups include the ID of the {parent message} in their
headers; smart news-readers can use this information to present USENET news
in `conversation' sequence rather than order-of-arrival. see {thread}. foo:
/foo/ 1. interj. Term of disgust. 2. n. Name used for temporary programs, or
samples of three-letter names. Other similar words are {bar}, {baz} (Stanford
corruption of {bar}), and rarely `rag'. 3. Used very generally as a sample
name for absolutely anything. 4. First on the standard list of metasyntactic
variables used in syntax examples. see also: {bar}, {baz}, {qux}, {quux},
{corge}, {grault}, {garply}, {waldo}, {fred}, {plugh}, {xyzzy}. {foo} is the
{canonical} example of a `metasyntactic variable'; a name used in examples
and understood to stand for whatever thing is under discussion, or any random
member of a class of things under discussion. To avoid confusion, hackers
never use `foo' or other words like it as permanent names for anything. The
etymology of hackish `foo' is obscure. When used in connection with `bar' it
is generally traced to the WWII-era army slang acronym FUBAR (Fucked Up
Beyond All Recognition), later bowdlerized to {foobar} and then truncated.
However, the use of the word `foo' itself has more complicated antecedents,
including a long history in comic strips and cartoons. The old `Smokey
Stover' comic strips by Bill Holman often included the word `FOO', in
particular on license plates of cars; allegedly, `FOO' and `BAR' also
occurred in Walt Kelly's `Pogo' strips. In a 1938 cartoon Daffy Duck holds up
a sign saying "SILENCE IS FOO!". It is even possible that hacker usage
actually springs from the title `FOO, Lampoons and Parody' of a comic book
first issued 20 years later, in September 1958; the byline read `C. Crumb'
but this may well have been a sort-of pseudonym for noted weird-comix artist
Robert Crumb. The title FOO was featured in large letters on the front cover.
Very probably, hackish `foo' had no single origin and derives through all
these channels from Yiddish `feh' and/or English `fooey!'. foobar: n. Another
common metasyntactic variable; see {foo}. Note that hackers do *not*
generally use this to mean FUBAR! fool: n. As used by hackers, specifically
describes a person who habitually reasons from obviously or demonstrably
incorrect premises and cannot be persuaded by evidence to do otherwise; it is
not generally used in its other senses, i.e. to describe a person with a
native incapacity to reason correctly, or a clown. Indeed, in hackish
experience many fools are capable of reasoning all too effectively in
executing their errors. see also {cretin}, {loser}. footprint: n. 1. The
floor or desk area taken up by a piece of hardware. 2. [IBM] The audit trail
(if any) left by a crashed program (often in plural, `footprints'). see also
{toeprint}. for the rest of us: [from the Mac slogan "The computer for the
rest of us"] adj. Used to describe a {spiffy} product whose affordability
shames other comparable products, or (more often) used sarcastically to
describe {spiffy}, but very overpriced products. foreground: [UNIX] adj.,vt.
On a time-sharing system, a task executing in foreground is one able to
accept input from and return output to the user; oppose {background}.
Normally, there is only one foreground task per terminal (or terminal
window); having multiple processes simultaneously reading the keyboard is a
good way to {lose}. By extension, to `foreground a task' is to bring it to
the top of one's {stack} for immediate processing, and hackers often use it
in this sense for non-computer tasks. forked: [UNIX] adj. Terminally slow, or
dead. Originated when the system slowed to incredibly bad speeds due to a
process recursively spawning copies of itself (using the UNIX system call
`fork(2)') and taking up all the process table entries. Fortrash: n.
Hackerism for the FORTRAN language, referring to its primitive design, gross
and irregular syntax, limited control constructs and slippery,
exception-filled semantics. fortune cookie: [UNIX] n. A random quote, item of
trivia, joke, or maxim printed to the user's tty at login time or (less
commonly) at logout time. Items from this lexicon have often been used as
fortune cookies. see {cookie file}. fossil: n. 1. In software, a misfeature
that becomes understandable only in historical context, as a remnant of times
past retained so as not to break compatibility. Example: the retention of
octal as default base for string escapes in {C}, in spite of the better match
of hexadecimal to ASCII and modern byte-addressable architectures. see {dusty
deck}. 2. More restrictively, a feature with past but no present utility.
Example: the force-all-caps (LCASE) bits in the V7 and {BSD UNIX} tty driver,
designed for use with monocase terminals. In a perversion of the usual
backward-compatibility goal, this functionality has actually been expanded
and renamed in some later {USG UNIX} releases as the IUCLC and OLCUC bits. 3.
The FOSSIL (Fido/Opus/Seadog Standard Interface Level) driver specification
for serial-port access to replace the {brain-dead} routines in the IBM PC
ROMs. Fossils are used by most MSDOS {BBS} software in lieu of programming
the {bare metal} of the serial ports, as the ROM routines do not support
interrupt-driven operation or setting speeds above 9600. Since the FOSSIL
specification allows additional functionality to be hooked in, drivers which
use the {hook} but do not provide serial-port access themselves are named
with a modifier, as in `video fossil'. fred: n. 1. The personal name most
frequently used as a metasyntactic variable (see {foo}). Allegedly popular
because it's easy to type on a standard QWERTY keyboard. Unlike {J. Random
Hacker} or {J. Random Loser} this name has no positive or negative loading.
2. An acronym for `Flipping Ridiculous Electronic Device'; other F-verbs may
be substituted for "flipping". frednet: n. Used to refer to some {random} and
uncommon protocol encountered on a network. "We're implementing bridging in
our router to solve the frednet problem." freeware: n. Free software, often
written by enthusiasts and distributed by users' groups, or via electronic
mail, local bulletin boards, {USENET}, or other electronic media. At one
time, `freeware' was a trademark of Andrew Fluegelman, the author of the
well-known MS-DOS comm program PC-TALK III. It wasn't enforced after his
mysterious disappearance in 1984. see {shareware}. freeze: v. To lock an
evolving software distribution or document against changes so it can be
released with some hope of stability. Carries the strong implication that the
item in question will `unfreeze' at some future date. "OK, fix that bug and
we'll freeze for release."