 :foo: /foo/ 1. interj. Term of disgust. 2. Used very generally as a sample
name for absolutely anything, esp. programs and files (esp. scratch files).
3. First on the standard list of {metasyntactic variable}s used in syntax
examples. see also {bar}, {baz}, {qux}, {quux}, {corge}, {grault}, {garply},
{waldo}, {fred}, {plugh}, {xyzzy}, {thud}. The etymology of hackish `foo' is
obscure. When used in connection with `bar' it is generally traced to the
WWII-era Army slang acronym FUBAR (`Fucked Up Beyond All Recognition'), later
bowdlerized to {foobar}. (see also {FUBAR}). However, the use of the word
`foo' itself has more complicated antecedents, including a long history in
comic strips and cartoons. The old "Smokey Stover" comic strips by Bill
Holman often included the word `FOO', in particular on license plates of
cars; allegedly, `FOO' and `BAR' also occurred in Walt Kelly's "Pogo" strips.
In the 1938 cartoon "Daffy Doc", a very early version of Daffy Duck holds up
a sign saying "SILENCE IS FOO!"; oddly, this seems to refer to some approving
or positive affirmative use of foo. It has been suggested that this might be
related to the Chinese word `fu' (sometimes transliterated `foo'), which can
mean "happiness" when spoken with the proper tone (the lion-dog guardians
flanking the steps of many Chinese restaurants are properly called "fu
dogs"). It is even possible that hacker usage actually springs from `FOO,
Lampoons and Parody', the title of a comic book first issued in September
1958; the byline read `C. Crumb' but the style of the art suggests this may
well have been a sort-of pseudonym for noted weird-comix artist Robert Crumb.
The title FOO was featured in large letters on the front cover. What the word
meant to Mr. Crumb is anybody's guess. An old-time member reports that in the
1959 `Dictionary of the TMRC Language', compiled at {TMRC} there was an entry
that went something like this: FOO: The first syllable of the sacred chant
phrase "FOO MANE PADME HUM." Our first obligation is to keep the foo counters
turning. For more about the legendary foo counters, see {TMRC}. Almost the
entire staff of what became the MIT AI LAB was involved with TMRC, and
probably picked the word up there. Very probably, hackish `foo' had no single
origin and derives through all these channels from Yiddish `feh' and/or
English `fooey'.