 :Foonly: n. 1. The {PDP-10} successor that was to have been built by the
Super Foonly project at the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory along
with a new operating system. The intention was to leapfrog from the old DEC
timesharing system SAIL was then running to a new generation, bypassing TENEX
which at that time was the ARPANET standard. ARPA funding for both the Super
Foonly and the new operating system was cut in 1974. Most of the design team
went to DEC and contributed greatly to the design of the PDP-10 model KL10.
2. The name of the company formed by Dave Poole, one of the principal Super
Foonly designers, and one of hackerdom's more colorful personalities. Many
people remember the parrot which sat on Poole's shoulder and was a regular
companion. 3. Any of the machines built by Poole's company. The first was the
F-1 (a.k.a. Super Foonly), which was the computational engine used to create
the graphics in the movie "TRON". The F-1 was the fastest PDP-10 ever built,
but only one was ever made. The effort drained Foonly of its financial
resources, and the company turned towards building smaller, slower, and much
less expensive machines. Unfortunately, these ran not the popular {TOPS-20}
but a TENEX variant called Foonex; this seriously limited their market. Also,
the machines shipped were actually wire-wrapped engineering prototypes
requiring individual attention from more than usually competent site
personnel, and thus had significant reliability problems. Poole's legendary
temper and unwillingness to suffer fools gladly did not help matters. By the
time of the Jupiter project cancellation in 1983, Foonly's proposal to build
another F-1 was eclipsed by the {Mars}, and the company never quite
recovered. see the {Mars} entry for the continuation and moral of this story.