 AOS/VS responds "Twice as much happens". Early versions of the popular
`minesweeper' game under Microsoft Windows had a cheat mode triggered by the
command `xyzzy<enter><right-shift>' that turns the top-left pixel of the
screen different colors depending on whether or not the cursor is over a
bomb. This feature temporarily diasappeared in Windows 98, but reappeared in
Windows 2000. The following passage from "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" by L.
Frank Baum, suggesting a possible pre-ADVENT origin, has recently come to
light: "Ziz-zy, zuz-zy, zik!" said Dorothy, who was now standing on both
feet. This ended the saying of the charm, and they heard a great chattering
and flapping of wings, as the band of Winged Monkeys flew up to them. The
text can be viewed at
ftp://metalab.unc.edu/pub/docs/books/gutenberg/etext93/wizoz10.txt (Project
Gutenberg). Another possible pre-ADVENT porigin is discussed at
http://people.delphi.com/rickadams/adventure/c_xyzzy.html (the XYZZY page). =
Y = ===== :YA-: abbrev. [Yet Another] In hackish acronyms this almost
invariably expands to {Yet Another}, following the precedent set by Unix
`yacc(1)' (Yet Another Compiler-Compiler). see {YABA}. :YABA: /ya'b*/ n.
[Cambridge] Yet Another Bloody Acronym. Whenever some program is being named,
someone invariably suggests that it be given a name that is acronymic. The
response from those with a trace of originality is to remark ironically that
the proposed name would then be `YABA-compatible'. Also used in response to
questions like "What is WYSIWYG?" see also {TLA}. :YAFIYGI: /yaf'ee-y*-gee/
adj. [coined in response to WYSIWYG] Describes the command-oriented
ed/vi/nroff/TeX style of word processing or other user interface, the
opposite of {WYSIWYG}. Stands for "You asked for it, you got it", because
what you actually asked for is often not apparent until long after it is too
late to do anything about it. Used to denote perversity ("Real Programmers
use YAFIYGI tools...and _like_ it!") or, less often, a necessary tradeoff
("Only a YAFIYGI tool can have full programmable flexibility in its
interface."). This precise sense of "You asked for it, you got it" seems to
have first appeared in Ed Post's classic parody "Real Programmers don't use
Pascal" (see {Real Programmer}s); the acronym is a more recent invention.
:YAUN: /yawn/ n. [Acronym for `Yet Another Unix Nerd'] Reported from the San
Diego Computer Society (predominantly a microcomputer users' group) as a
good-natured punning insult aimed at Unix zealots. :Yellow Book: n. The print
version of this Jargon File; "The New Hacker's Dictionary" from MIT Press;
The book includes essentially all the material the File, plus a Foreword by
Guy L. Steele Jr. and a Preface by Eric S. Raymond. Most importantly, the
book version is nicely typeset and includes almost all of the infamous
Crunchly cartoons by the Great Quux, each attached to an appropriate entry.
The first edition (1991, ISBN 0-262-68069-6) corresponded to the Jargon File
version 2.9.6. The second edition (1993, ISBN 0-262-68079-3) corresponded to
the Jargon File 3.0.0. The third (1996, ISBN 0-262-68092-0) corresponded to
4.0.0. :yellow card: n. see {green card}. :yellow wire: n. [IBM] Repair wires
used when connectors (especially ribbon connectors) got broken due to some
schlemiel pinching them, or to reconnect cut traces after the FE mistakenly
cut one. Compare {blue wire}, {purple wire}, {red wire}. :Yet Another: adj.
[From Unix's `yacc(1)', `Yet Another Compiler-Compiler', a LALR parser
generator] 1. Of your own work: A humorous allusion often used in titles to
acknowledge that the topic is not original, though the content is. As in `Yet
Another AI Group' or `Yet Another Simulated Annealing Algorithm'. 2. Of
others' work: Describes something of which there are already far too many.
see also {YA-}, {YABA}, {YAUN}. :YHBT: // [Usenet: very common] Abbreviation:
You Have Been Trolled (see {troll}, sense 1). Especially used in "YHBT. YHL.
HAND.", which is widely understood to expand to "You Have Been Trolled. You
Have Lost. Have A Nice Day". You are quite likely to see this if you respond
incautiously to a flame-provoking post that was obviously floated as sucker
bait. :YKYBHTLW: // abbrev. Abbreviation of `You know you've been hacking too
long when...', which became established on the Usenet group
alt.folklore.computers during extended discussion of the indicated entry in
the Jargon File. :YMMV: // cav. Abbreviation for {Your mileage may vary}
common on Usenet. :You are not expected to understand this: [Unix] cav. The
canonical comment describing something {magic} or too complicated to bother
explaining properly. From an infamous comment in the context-switching code
of the V6 Unix kernel. Dennis Ritchie has explained this in detail
(http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/cs/who/dmr/odd.html). :You know you've been
hacking too long when: The set-up line for a genre of one-liners told by
hackers about themselves. These include the following: * not only do you
check your email more often than your paper mail, but you remember your
{network address} faster than your postal one. * your {SO} kisses you on the
neck and the first thing you think is "Uh, oh, {priority interrupt}." * you
go to balance your checkbook and discover that you're doing it in octal. *
your computers have a higher street value than your car. * in your universe,
`round numbers' are powers of 2, not 10. * more than once, you have woken up
recalling a dream in some programming language. * you realize you have never
seen half of your best friends. A list
(http://albrecht.ecn.purdue.edu/~taylor/humor/hack.html) list of these can be
found by searching for this phrase on the web. [An early version of this
entry said "All but one of these have been reliably reported as hacker traits
(some of them quite often). Even hackers may have trouble spotting the
ringer." The ringer was balancing one's checkbook in octal, which I made up
out of whole cloth. Although more respondents picked that one out as fiction
than any of the others, I also received multiple independent reports of its
actually happening, most famously to Grace Hopper while she was working with
BINAC in 1949. --ESR] :Your mileage may vary: cav. [from the standard
disclaimer attached to EPA mileage ratings by American car manufacturers] 1.
A ritual warning often found in Unix freeware distributions. Translates
roughly as "Hey, I tried to write this portably, but who _knows_ what'll
happen on your system?" 2. More generally, a qualifier attached to advice. "I
find that sending flowers works well, but your mileage may vary." :Yow!:
/yow/ interj. [from "Zippy the Pinhead" comix] A favored hacker expression of
humorous surprise or emphasis. "Yow! Check out what happens when you twiddle
the foo option on this display hack!" Compare {gurfle}. :yoyo mode: n. The
state in which the system is said to be when it rapidly alternates several
times between being up and being down. Interestingly (and perhaps not by
coincidence), many hardware vendors give out free yoyos at Usenix exhibits.
Sun Microsystems gave out logoized yoyos at SIGPLAN '88. Tourists staying at
one of Atlanta's most respectable hotels were subsequently treated to the
sight of 200 of the country's top computer scientists testing yo-yo
algorithms in the lobby. :Yu-Shiang Whole Fish: /yoo-shyang hohl fish/ n.
obs. The character gamma (extended SAIL ASCII 0001001), which with a loop in
its tail looks like a little fish swimming down the page. The term is
actually the name of a Chinese dish in which a fish is cooked whole (not
{parse}d) and covered with Yu-Shiang (or Yu-Hsiang) sauce. Usage: primarily
by people on the MIT LISP Machine, which could display this character on the
screen. Tends to elicit incredulity from people who hear about it
second-hand. = Z = ===== :zap: 1. n. Spiciness. 2. vt. To make food spicy. 3.
vt. To make someone `suffer' by making his food spicy. (Most hackers love
spicy food. Hot-and-sour soup is considered wimpy unless it makes you wipe
your nose for the rest of the meal.) see {zapped}. 4. vt. To modify, usually
to correct; esp. used when the action is performed with a debugger or binary
patching tool. Also implies surgical precision. "Zap the debug level to 6 and
run it again." In the IBM mainframe world, binary patches are applied to
programs or to the OS with a program called `superzap', whose file name is
`IMASPZAP' (possibly contrived from I M A SuPerZAP). 5. vt. To erase or
reset. 6. To {fry} a chip with static electricity. "Uh oh -- I think that
lightning strike may have zapped the disk controller." :zapped: adj. Spicy.
This term is used to distinguish between food that is hot (in temperature)
and food that is _spicy_-hot. For example, the Chinese appetizer Bon Bon
Chicken is a kind of chicken salad that is cold but zapped; by contrast,
{vanilla} wonton soup is hot but not zapped. see also {{oriental food}},
{laser chicken}. See {zap}, senses 1 and 2. :Zawinski's Law: "Every program
attempts to expand until it can read mail. Those programs which cannot so
expand are replaced by ones which can." Coined by Jamie Zawinski (who called
it the "Law of Software Envelopment") to express his belief that all truly
useful programs experience pressure to evolve into toolkits and application
platforms (the mailer thing, he says, is just a side effect of that). It is
commonly cited, though with widely varying degrees of accuracy. :zbeba: n.
[USENET] The word `moron' in {rot13}. Used to describe newbies who are
behaving with especial cluelessness. :zen: vt. To figure out something by
meditation or by a sudden flash of enlightenment. Originally applied to bugs,
but occasionally applied to problems of life in general. "How'd you figure
out the buffer allocation problem?" "Oh, I zenned it." Contrast {grok}, which
connotes a time-extended version of zenning a system. Compare {hack mode}.
see also {guru}. :zero: vt. 1. To set to 0. Usually said of small pieces of
data, such as bits or words (esp. in the construction `zero out'). 2. To
erase; to discard all data from. Said of disks and directories, where
`zeroing' need not involve actually writing zeroes throughout the area being
zeroed. One may speak of something being `logically zeroed' rather than being
`physically zeroed'. see {scribble}. :zero-content: adj. Syn. {content-free}.
:Zero-One-Infinity Rule: prov. "Allow none of {foo}, one of {foo}, or any
number of {foo}." A rule of thumb for software design, which instructs one to
not place {random} limits on the number of instances of a given entity (such
as: windows in a window system, letters in an OS's filenames, etc.).
Specifically, one should either disallow the entity entirely, allow exactly
one instance (an "exception"), or allow as many as the user wants - address
space and memory permitting. The logic behind this rule is that there are
often situations where it makes clear sense to allow one of something instead
of none. However, if one decides to go further and allow N (for N > 1), then
why not N+1? And if N+1, then why not N+2, and so on? Once above 1, there's
no excuse not to allow any N; hence, {infinity}. Many hackers recall in this
connection Isaac Asimov's SF novel "The Gods Themselves" in which a character
announces that the number 2 is impossible - if you're going to believe in
more than one universe, you might as well believe in an infinite number of
them. :zeroth: /zee'rohth/ adj. First. Among software designers, comes from
C's and LISP's 0-based indexing of arrays. Hardware people also tend to start
counting at 0 instead of 1; this is natural since, e.g., the 256 states of 8
bits correspond to the binary numbers 0, 1, ..., 255 and the digital devices
known as `counters' count in this way. Hackers and computer scientists often
like to call the first chapter of a publication `Chapter 0', especially if it
is of an introductory nature (one of the classic instances was in the First
Edition of {K&R}). In recent years this trait has also been observed among
many pure mathematicians (who have an independent tradition of numbering from
0). Zero-based numbering tends to reduce {fencepost error}s, though it cannot
eliminate them entirely. :zigamorph: /zig'*-morf/ n. 1. Hex FF (11111111)
when used as a delimiter or {fence} character. Usage: primarily at IBM shops.
2. [proposed] n. The Unicode non-character U+FFFF (1111111111111111), a
character code which is not assigned to any character, and so is usable as
end-of-string. (Unicode is a 16-bit character code intended to cover all of
the world's writing systems, including Latin, Greek, Cyrillic, Chinese,
hiragana, katakana, Devanagari, Thai, Laotian and many other scripts -
support for {elvish} is planned for a future release). :zip: vt. [primarily
MS-DOS] To create a compressed archive from a group of files using PKWare's
PKZIP or a compatible archiver. Its use is spreading now that portable
implementations of the algorithm have been written. Commonly used as follows:
"I'll zip it up and send it to you." see {tar and feather}. :zipperhead: n.
[IBM] A person with a closed mind. :zombie: n. [Unix] A process that has died
but has not yet relinquished its process table slot (because the parent
process hasn't executed a `wait(2)' for it yet). These can be seen in `ps(1)'
listings occasionally. Compare {orphan}. :zorch: /zorch/ 1. [TMRC] v. To
attack with an inverse heat sink. 2. [TMRC] v. To travel, with v approaching
c [that is, with velocity approaching lightspeed --ESR]. 3. [MIT] v. To
propel something very quickly. "The new comm software is very fast; it really
zorches files through the network." 4. [MIT] n. Influence. Brownie points.
Good karma. The intangible and fuzzy currency in which favors are measured.
"I'd rather not ask him for that just yet; I think I've used up my quota of
zorch with him for the week." 5. [MIT] n. Energy, drive, or ability. "I think
I'll {punt} that change for now; I've been up for 30 hours and I've run out
of zorch." 6. [MIT] v. To flunk an exam or course. :Zork: /zork/ n. The
second of the great early experiments in computer fantasy gaming; see
{ADVENT}. Originally written on MIT-DM during 1977-1979, later distributed
with BSD Unix (as a patched, sourceless RT-11 FORTRAN binary; see
{retrocomputing}) and commercialized as `The Zork Trilogy' by {Infocom}. The
FORTRAN source was later rewritten for portability and released to Usenet
under the name "Dungeon". Both FORTRAN "Dungeon" and translated C versions
are available at many FTP sites. see also {grue}. :zorkmid: /zork'mid/ n. The
canonical unit of currency in hacker-written games. This originated in {Zork}
but has spread to {nethack} and is referred to in several other games.
:(Lexicon Entries End Here):