 FUD was associated increasingly frequently with {Microsoft}, and has become
generalized to refer to any kind of disinformation used as a competitive
weapon. :FUD wars: /fuhd worz/ n. [from {FUD}] Political posturing engaged in
by hardware and software vendors ostensibly committed to standardization but
actually willing to fragment the market to protect their own shares. The Unix
International vs. OSF conflict about Unix standards was one outstanding
example; Microsoft vs. Netscape vs. W3C about HTML standards is another.
:fudge: 1. vt. To perform in an incomplete but marginally acceptable way,
particularly with respect to the writing of a program. "I didn't feel like
going through that pain and suffering, so I fudged it -- I'll fix it later."
2. n. The resulting code. :fudge factor: n. [common] A value or parameter
that is varied in an ad hoc way to produce the desired result. The terms
`tolerance' and {slop} are also used, though these usually indicate a
one-sided leeway, such as a buffer that is made larger than necessary because
one isn't sure exactly how large it needs to be, and it is better to waste a
little space than to lose completely for not having enough. A fudge factor,
on the other hand, can often be tweaked in more than one direction. A good
example is the `fuzz' typically allowed in floating-point calculations: two
numbers being compared for equality must be allowed to differ by a small
amount; if that amount is too small, a computation may never terminate, while
if it is too large, results will be needlessly inaccurate. Fudge factors are
frequently adjusted incorrectly by programmers who don't fully understand
their import. see also {coefficient of X}. :fuel up: vi. To eat or drink
hurriedly in order to get back to hacking. "Food-p?" "Yeah, let's fuel up."
"Time for a {great-wall}!" see also {{oriental food}}. :Full Monty: n. see
{monty}, sense 2. :fum: n. [XEROX PARC] At PARC, often the third of the
standard {metasyntactic variable}s (after {foo} and {bar}). Competes with
{baz}, which is more common outside PARC. :functino: n. [uncommon, U.K.;
originally a serendipitous typo in 1994] A pointer to a function in C and
C++. By association with sub-atomic particles such as the neutrino, it
accurately conveys an impression of smallness (one pointer is four bytes on
most systems) and speed (hackers can and do use arrays of functinos to
replace a switch() statement). :funky: adj. Said of something that functions,
but in a slightly strange, klugey way. It does the job and would be difficult
to change, so its obvious non-optimality is left alone. Often used to
describe interfaces. The more bugs something has that nobody has bothered to
fix because workarounds are easier, the funkier it is. {TECO} and UUCP are
funky. The Intel i860's exception handling is extraordinarily funky. Most
standards acquire funkiness as they age. "The new mailer is installed, but is
still somewhat funky; if it bounces your mail for no reason, try resubmitting
it." "This