 GCOS later played a major role in keeping Honeywell a dismal also-ran in the
mainframe market, and was itself mostly ditched for Unix in the late 1980s
when Honeywell began to retire its aging {big iron} designs. :GECOS::
/jee'kohs/ n. see {{GCOS}}. :gedanken: /g*-dahn'kn/ adj. Ungrounded;
impractical; not well-thought-out; untried; untested. `Gedanken' is a German
word for `thought'. A thought experiment is one you carry out in your head.
In physics, the term `gedanken experiment' is used to refer to an experiment
that is impractical to carry out, but useful to consider because it can be
reasoned about theoretically. (A classic gedanken experiment of relativity
theory involves thinking about a man in an elevator accelerating through
space.) Gedanken experiments are very useful in physics, but must be used
with care. It's too easy to idealize away some important aspect of the real
world in constructing the `apparatus'. Among hackers, accordingly, the word
has a pejorative connotation. It is typically used of a project, especially
one in artificial intelligence research, that is written up in grand detail
(typically as a Ph.D. thesis) without ever being implemented to any great
extent. Such a project is usually perpetrated by people who aren't very good
hackers or find programming distasteful or are just in a hurry. A `gedanken
thesis' is usually marked by an obvious lack of intuition about what is
programmable and what is not, and about what does and does not constitute a
clear specification of an algorithm. see also {AI-complete}, {DWIM}. :geef:
v. [ostensibly from `gefingerpoken'] vt. Syn. {mung}. see also
{blinkenlights}. :geek code: n. (also "Code of the Geeks"). A set of codes
commonly used in {sig block}s to broadcast the interests, skills, and
aspirations of the poster. Features a G at the left margin followed by
numerous letter codes, often suffixed with plusses or minuses. Because many
net users are involved in computer science, the most common prefix is `GCS'.
To see a copy of the current code, browse `http://www.geekcode.com'. Here is
a sample geek code (that of Robert Hayden, the code's inventor) from that
page: -----BEGIN GEEK CODE BLOCK----- Version: 3.1 GED/J d-- s:++>: a-
C++(++++)$ ULUO++ P+>+++ L++ !E---- W+(---) N+++ o+ K+++ w+(---) O- M+$>++
V-- PS++(+++)>$ PE++(+)>$ Y++ PGP++ t- 5+++ X++ R+++>$ tv+ b+ DI+++ D+++
G+++++>$ e++$>++++ h r-- y+** ------END GEEK CODE BLOCK------ The geek code
originated in 1993; it was inspired (according to the inventor) by previous
"bear", "smurf" and "twink" style-and-sexual-preference codes from lesbian
and gay {newsgroup}s. It has in turn spawned imitators; there is now even a
"Saturn geek code" for owners of the Saturn car. see also {computer geek}.
:geek out: vi. To temporarily enter techno-nerd mode while in a non-hackish
context, for example at parties held near computer equipment. Especially used
when you need to do or say something highly technical and don't have time to
explain: "Pardon me while I geek out for a moment." see {computer geek}; see
also {propeller head}. :gen: /jen/ n.,v. Short for {generate}, used
frequently in both spoken and written contexts. :gender mender: n. [common] A
cable connector shell with either two male or two female connectors on it,
used to correct the mismatches that result when some {loser} didn't
understand the RS232C specification and the distinction between DTE and DCE.
Used esp. for RS-232C parts in either the original D-25 or the IBM PC's bogus
D-9 format. Also called `gender bender', `gender blender', `sex changer', and
even `homosexual adapter;' however, there appears to be some confusion as to
whether a `male homosexual adapter' has pins on both sides (is doubly male)
or sockets on both sides (connects two males). :General Public Virus: n.
Pejorative name for some versions of the {GNU} project {copyleft} or General
Public License (GPL), which requires that any tools or {app}s incorporating
copylefted code must be source-distributed on the same anti-proprietary terms
as GNU stuff. Thus it is alleged that the copyleft `infects' software
generated with