 9600; the use of a semistandard FOSSIL library is preferable to the {bare
metal} serial port programming otherwise required. Since the FOSSIL
specification allows additional functionality to be hooked in, drivers that
use the {hook} but do not provide serial-port access themselves are named
with a modifier, as in `video fossil'. :four-color glossies: n. 1. Literature
created by {marketroid}s that allegedly contains technical specs but which is
in fact as superficial as possible without being totally {content-free}.
"Forget the four-color glossies, give me the tech ref manuals." Often applied
as an indication of superficiality even when the material is printed on
ordinary paper in black and white. Four-color-glossy manuals are _never_
useful for solving a problem. 2. [rare] Applied by extension to manual pages
that don't contain enough information to diagnose why the program doesn't
produce the expected or desired output. :frag: n.,v. [from Vietnam-era U.S.
military slang via the games Doom and Quake] 1. To kill another player's
{avatar} in a multiuser game. "I hold the office Quake record with 40 frags."
2. To completely ruin something. "Forget that power supply, the lightning
strike fragged it. see also {gib}. :fragile: adj. Syn {brittle}. :fred: n. 1.
The personal name most frequently used as a {metasyntactic variable} (see
{foo}). Allegedly popular because it's easy for a non-touch-typist to type on
a standard QWERTY keyboard. In Great Britain, `fred', `jim' and `sheila' are
common metasyntactic variables because their uppercase versions were
_official_ names given to the 3 memory areas that held I/O status registers
on the lovingly-remembered BBC Microcomputer! (It is reported that SHEILA was
poked the most often.) Unlike {J. Random Hacker} or `J. Random Loser', the
name `fred' has no positive or negative loading (but see {Dr. Fred Mbogo}).
see also {barney}. 2. An acronym for `Flipping Ridiculous Electronic Device';
other F-verbs may be substituted for `flipping'. :Fred Foobar: n. {J. Random
Hacker}'s cousin. Any typical human being, more or less synomous with
`someone' except that Fred Foobar can be {backreference}d by name later on.
"So Fred Foobar will enter his phone number into the database, and it'll be
archived with the others. Months later, when Fred searches..." see also
{Bloggs Family} and {Dr. Fred Mbogo} :frednet: /fred'net/ n. Used to refer to
some {random} and uncommon protocol encountered on a network. "We're
implementing bridging in our router to solve the frednet problem." :free
software: n. As defined by Richard M. Stallman and used by the Free Software
movement, this means software that gives users enough freedom to be used by
the free software community. Specifically, users must be free to modify the
software for their private use, and free to redistribute it either with or
without modifications, either commercially or noncommercially, either gratis
or charging a distribution fee. Free software has existed since the dawn of
computing; Free Software as a movement began in 1984 with the GNU Project.
see also {open source}. :freeware: n. [common] Free software, often written
by enthusiasts and distributed by users' groups, or via electronic mail,
local bulletin boards, {Usenet}, or other electronic media. At one time,
`freeware' was a trademark of Andrew Fluegelman, the author of the well-known
MS-DOS comm program PC-TALK III. It wasn't enforced after his mysterious
disappearance and presumed death in 1984. see {shareware}, {FRS}. :freeze: v.
To lock an evolving software distribution or document against changes so it
can be released with some hope of stability. Carries the strong implication
that the item in question will `unfreeze' at some future date. "OK, fix that
bug and we'll freeze for release." There are more specific constructions on
this term. A `feature freeze', for example, locks out modifications intended
to introduce new features but still allows bugfixes and completion of
existing features; a `code freeze' connotes no more changes at all. At Sun
Microsystems and elsewhere, one may also hear references to `code slush' --
that is, an almost-but-not-quite frozen state. :fried: adj. 1. [common]
Non-working due to hardware failure; burnt out. Especially used of hardware
brought down by a `power glitch' (see {glitch}), {drop-outs}, a short, or
some other electrical event. (Sometimes this literally happens to electronic
circuits! In particular, resistors can burn out and transformers can melt
down, emitting noxious smoke -- see {friode}, {SED} and {LER}. However, this
term is also used metaphorically.) Compare {frotzed}. 2. [common] Of people,
exhausted. Said particularly of those who continue to work in such a state.
Often used as an explanation or excuse. "Yeah, I know that fix destroyed the
file system, but I was fried when I put it in." Esp. common in conjunction
with `brain': "My brain is fried today, I'm very short on sleep." :frink:
/frink/ v. The unknown ur-verb, fill in your own meaning. Found esp. on the
Usenet newsgroup alt.fan.lemurs, where it is said that the lemurs know what
`frink' means, but they aren't telling. Compare {gorets}. :friode: /fri:'ohd/
n. [TMRC] A reversible (that is, fused or blown) diode. Compare {fried}; see
also {SED}, {LER}. :fritterware: n. An excess of capability that serves no
productive end. The canonical example is font-diddling software on the Mac
(see {macdink}); the term describes anything that eats huge amounts of time
for quite marginal gains in function but seduces people into using it anyway.
see also {window shopping}. :frob: /frob/ 1. n. [MIT; very common] The {TMRC}
definition was "FROB = a protruding arm or trunnion"; by metaphoric
extension, a `frob' is any random small thing; an object that you can
comfortably hold in one hand; something you can frob (sense 2). see
{frobnitz}. 2. vt. Abbreviated form of {frobnicate}. 3. [from the {MUD}
world] A command on some MUDs that changes a player's experience level (this
can be used to make wizards); also, to request {wizard} privileges on the
`professional courtesy' grounds that one is a wizard elsewhere. The command
is actually `frobnicate' but is universally abbreviated to the shorter form.
:frobnicate: /frob'ni-kayt/ vt. [Poss. derived from {frobnitz}, and usually
abbreviated to {frob}, but `frobnicate' is recognized as the official full
form.] To manipulate or adjust, to tweak. One frequently frobs bits or other
2-state devices. Thus: "Please frob the light switch" (that is, flip it), but
also "Stop frobbing that clasp; you'll break it". One also sees the
construction `to frob a frob'. see {tweak} and {twiddle}. Usage: frob,
twiddle, and tweak sometimes connote points along a continuum. `Frob'
connotes aimless manipulation; `twiddle' connotes gross manipulation, often a
coarse search for a proper setting; `tweak' connotes fine-tuning. If someone
is turning a knob on an oscilloscope, then if he's carefully adjusting it, he
is probably tweaking it; if he is just turning it but looking at the screen,
he is probably twiddling it; but if he's just doing it because turning a knob
is fun, he's frobbing it. The variant `frobnosticate' has been recently
reported. :frobnitz: /frob'nits/, pl. `frobnitzem' /frob'nit-zm/ or `frobni'
/frob'ni:/ n. [TMRC] An unspecified physical object, a widget. Also refers to
electronic black boxes. This rare form is usually abbreviated to `frotz', or
more commonly to {frob}. Also used are `frobnule' (/frob'n[y]ool/) and
`frobule' (/frob'yool/). Starting perhaps in 1979, `frobozz' /fr*-boz'/
(plural: `frobbotzim' /fr*-bot'zm/) has also become very popular, largely
through its exposure as a name via {Zork}. These variants can also be applied
to nonphysical objects, such as data structures. Pete Samson, compiler of the
original {TMRC} lexicon, adds, "Under the TMRC [railroad] layout were many
storage boxes, managed (in 1958) by David R. Sawyer. Several had fanciful
designations written on them, such as `Frobnitz Coil Oil'. Perhaps DRS
intended Frobnitz to be a proper name, but the name was quickly taken for the
thing". This was almost certainly the origin of the term. :frog: alt. `phrog'
1. interj. Term of disgust (we seem to have a lot of them). 2. Used as a name
for just about anything. see {foo}. 3. n. Of things, a crock. 4. n. Of
people, somewhere in between a turkey and a toad. 5. `froggy': adj. Similar
to {bagbiting}, but milder. "This froggy program is taking forever to run!"
:frogging: [University of Waterloo] v. 1. Partial corruption of a text file
or input stream by some bug or consistent glitch, as opposed to random events
like line noise or media failures. Might occur, for example, if one bit of
each incoming character on a tty were stuck, so that some characters were
correct and others were not. see {terminak} for a historical example and
compare {dread high-bit disease}. 2. By extension, accidental display of text
in a mode where the output device emits special symbols or mnemonics rather
than conventional ASCII. This often happens, for example, when using a
terminal or comm program on a device like an IBM PC with a special
`high-half' character set and with the bit-parity assumption wrong. A hacker
sufficiently familiar with ASCII bit patterns might be able to read the
display anyway. :front end: n. 1. An intermediary computer that does set-up
and filtering for another (usually more powerful but less friendly) machine
(a `back end'). 2. What you're talking to when you have a conversation with
someone who is making replies without paying attention. "Look at the dancing
elephants!" "Uh-huh." "Do you know what I just said?" "Sorry, you were
talking to the front end." 3. Software that provides an interface to another
program `behind' it, which may not be as user-friendly. Probably from analogy
with hardware front-ends (see sense 1) that interfaced with mainframes.
:frotz: /frots/ 1. n. see {frobnitz}. 2. `mumble frotz': An interjection of
mildest disgust. :frotzed: /frotst/ adj. {down} because of hardware problems.
Compare {fried}. A machine that is merely frotzed may be fixable without
replacing parts, but a fried machine is more seriously damaged. :frowney: n.
(alt. `frowney face') see {emoticon}. :FRS: // n.,obs. Abbreviation for
"Freely Redistributable Software" which entered general use on the Internet
in 1995 after years of low-level confusion over what exactly to call software
written to be passed around and shared (contending terms including
{freeware}, {shareware}, and `sourceware' were never universally felt to be
satisfactory for various subtle reasons). The first formal conference on
freely redistributable software was held in Cambridge, Massachussetts, in
February 1996 (sponsored by the Free Software Foundation). The conference
organizers used the FRS abbreviation heavily in its calls for papers and
other literature during 1995. The term was in steady though not common use
until 1998 and the invention of {open source}. :fry: 1. vi. To fail. Said
especially of smoke-producing hardware failures. More generally, to become
non-working. Usage: never said of software, only of hardware and humans. see
{fried}, {magic smoke}. 2. vt. To cause to fail; to {roach}, {toast}, or
{hose} a piece of hardware. Never used of software or humans, but compare
{fried}. :fscking: /fus'-king/ or /eff'-seek-ing/ adj. [Usenet; common]
Fucking, in the expletive sense (it refers to the Unix filesystem-repair
command fsck(1), of which it can be said that if you have to use it at all
you are having a bad day). Originated on {scary devil monastery} and the
bofh.net newsgroups, but became much more widespread following the passage of
{CDA}. Also occasionally seen in the variant "What the fsck?" :FSF: /F-S-F/
abbrev. Common abbreviation (both spoken and written) for the name of the
Free Software Foundation, a nonprofit educational association formed to
support the {GNU} project. :FTP: /F-T-P/, _not_ /fit'ip/ 1. [techspeak] n.
The File Transfer Protocol for transmitting files between systems on the
Internet. 2. vt. To {beam} a file using the File Transfer Protocol. 3.
Sometimes used as a generic even for file transfers not using {FTP}. "Lemme
get a copy of "Wuthering Heights" ftp'd from uunet." :-fu: [common;
generalized from `kung-fu'] Combining form denoting expert practice of a
skill. "That's going to take some serious code-fu." First sighted in
connection with the GIMP's remote-scripting facility, script-fu, in 1998.
:FUBAR: n. The Failed UniBus Address Register in a VAX. A good example of how
jargon can occasionally be snuck past the {suit}s; see {foobar}, and {foo}
for a fuller etymology. :fuck me harder: excl. Sometimes uttered in response
to egregious misbehavior, esp. in software, and esp. of misbehaviors which
seem unfairly persistent (as though designed in by the imp of the perverse).
Often theatrically elaborated: "Aiighhh! Fuck me with a piledriver and 16
feet of curare-tipped wrought-iron fence _and no lubricants_!" The phrase is
sometimes heard abbreviated `FMH' in polite company. [This entry is an
extreme example of the hackish habit of coining elaborate and evocative terms
for lossage. Here we see a quite self-conscious parody of mainstream
expletives that has become a running gag in part of the hacker culture; it
illustrates the hackish tendency to turn any situation, even one of extreme
frustration, into an intellectual game (the point being, in this case, to
creatively produce a long-winded description of the most anatomically absurd
mental image possible -- the short forms implicitly allude to all the
ridiculous long forms ever spoken). Scatological language is actually
relatively uncommon among hackers, and there was some controversy over
whether this entry ought to be included at all. As it reflects a live usage
recognizably peculiar to the hacker culture, we feel it is in the hackish
spirit of truthfulness and opposition to all forms of censorship to record it
here. --ESR & GLS] :FUD: /fuhd/ n. Defined by Gene Amdahl after he left IBM
to found his own company: "FUD is the fear, uncertainty, and doubt that IBM
sales people instill in the minds of potential customers who might be
considering [Amdahl] products." The idea, of course, was to persuade them to
go with safe IBM gear rather than with competitors' equipment. This implicit
coercion was traditionally accomplished by promising that Good Things would
happen to people who stuck with IBM, but Dark Shadows loomed over the future
of competitors' equipment or software. see {IBM}. After 1990 the term FUD was
associated increasingly frequently with {Microsoft}, and has become
generalized to refer to any kind of disinformation used as a competitive
weapon. :FUD wars: /fuhd worz/ n. [from {FUD}] Political posturing engaged in
by hardware and software vendors ostensibly committed to standardization but
actually willing to fragment the market to protect their own shares. The Unix
International vs. OSF conflict about Unix standards was one outstanding
example; Microsoft vs. Netscape vs. W3C about HTML standards is another.
:fudge: 1. vt. To perform in an incomplete but marginally acceptable way,
particularly with respect to the writing of a program. "I didn't feel like
going through that pain and suffering, so I fudged it -- I'll fix it later."
2. n. The resulting code. :fudge factor: n. [common] A value or parameter
that is varied in an ad hoc way to produce the desired result. The terms
`tolerance' and {slop} are also used, though these usually indicate a
one-sided leeway, such as a buffer that is made larger than necessary because
one isn't sure exactly how large it needs to be, and it is better to waste a
little space than to lose completely for not having enough. A fudge factor,
on the other hand, can often be tweaked in more than one direction. A good
example is the `fuzz' typically allowed in floating-point calculations: two
numbers being compared for equality must be allowed to differ by a small
amount; if that amount is too small, a computation may never terminate, while
if it is too large, results will be needlessly inaccurate. Fudge factors are
frequently adjusted incorrectly by programmers who don't fully understand
their import. see also {coefficient of X}. :fuel up: vi. To eat or drink
hurriedly in order to get back to hacking. "Food-p?" "Yeah, let's fuel up."
"Time for a {great-wall}!" see also {{oriental food}}. :Full Monty: n. see
{monty}, sense 2. :fum: n. [XEROX PARC] At PARC, often the third of the
standard {metasyntactic variable}s (after {foo} and {bar}). Competes with
{baz}, which is more common outside PARC. :functino: n. [uncommon, U.K.;
originally a serendipitous typo in 1994] A pointer to a function in C and
C++. By association with sub-atomic particles such as the neutrino, it
accurately conveys an impression of smallness (one pointer is four bytes on
most systems) and speed (hackers can and do use arrays of functinos to
replace a switch() statement). :funky: adj. Said of something that functions,
but in a slightly strange, klugey way. It does the job and would be difficult
to change, so its obvious non-optimality is left alone. Often used to
describe interfaces. The more bugs something has that nobody has bothered to
fix because workarounds are easier, the funkier it is. {TECO} and UUCP are
funky. The Intel i860's exception handling is extraordinarily funky. Most
standards acquire funkiness as they age. "The new mailer is installed, but is
still somewhat funky; if it bounces your mail for no reason, try resubmitting
it." "This UART is pretty funky. The data ready line is active-high in
interrupt mode and active-low in DMA mode." :funny money: n. 1. Notional
`dollar' units of computing time and/or storage handed to students at the
beginning of a computer course; also called `play money' or `purple money'
(in implicit opposition to real or `green' money). In New Zealand and Germany
the odd usage `paper money' has been recorded; in Germany, the particularly
amusing synonym `transfer ruble' commemmorates the funny money used for trade
between COMECON countries back when the Soviet Bloc still existed. When your
funny money ran out, your account froze and you needed to go to a professor
to get more. Fortunately, the plunging cost of timesharing cycles has made
this less common. The amounts allocated were almost invariably too small,
even for the non-hackers who wanted to slide by with minimum work. In extreme
cases, the practice led to small-scale black markets in bootlegged computer
accounts. 2. By extension, phantom money or quantity tickets of any kind used
as a resource-allocation hack within a system. Antonym: `real money'.
:furrfu: excl. [Usenet; written, only rarely spoken] Written-only equivalent
of "Sheesh!"; it is, in fact, "sheesh" modified by {rot13}. Evolved in
mid-1992 as a response to notably silly postings repeating urban myths on the
Usenet newsgroup alt.folklore.urban, after some posters complained that
"Sheesh!" as a response to {newbie}s was being overused. see also {FOAF}.
:fuzzball: n. [TCP/IP hackers] A DEC LSI-11 running a particular suite of
homebrewed software written by Dave Mills and assorted co-conspirators, used
in the early 1980s for Internet protocol testbedding and experimentation.
These were used as NSFnet backbone sites in its early 56kb-line days; a few
were still active on the Internet as late as mid-1993, doing odd jobs such as
network time service. = G = ===== :G: pref.,suff. [SI] see {{quantifiers}}.
:g-file: n. [Commodore BBS culture] Any file that is written with the
intention of being read by a human rather than a machine, such as the Jargon
File, documentation, humor files, hacker lore, and technical materials. This
term survives from the nearly forgotten Commodore 64 underground and BBS
community. In the early 80s, C-Net had emerged as the most popular C64 BBS
software for systems which encouraged messaging (as opposed to file
transfer). There were three main options for files: Program files (p-files),
which served the same function as `doors' in today's systems, UD files (the
user upload/download section), and g-files. Anything that was meant to be
read was included in g-files. :gabriel: /gay'bree-*l/ n. [for Dick Gabriel,
SAIL LISP hacker and volleyball fanatic] An unnecessary (in the opinion of
the opponent) stalling tactic, e.g., tying one's shoelaces or combing one's
hair repeatedly, asking the time, etc. Also used to refer to the perpetrator
of such tactics. Also, `pulling a Gabriel', `Gabriel mode'. :gag: vi.
Equivalent to {choke}, but connotes more disgust. "Hey, this is FORTRAN code.
No wonder the C compiler gagged." see also {barf}. :gang bang: n. The use of
large numbers of loosely coupled programmers in an attempt to wedge a great
many features into a product in a short time. Though there have been
memorable gang bangs (e.g., that over-the-weekend assembler port mentioned in
Steven Levy's "Hackers"), most are perpetrated by large companies trying to
meet deadlines; the inevitable result is enormous buggy masses of code
entirely lacking in {orthogonal}ity. When market-driven managers make a list
of all the features the competition has and assign one programmer to
implement each, the probability of maintaining a coherent (or even
functional) design goes infinitesimal. see also {firefighting}, {Mongolian
Hordes technique}, {Conway's Law}. :garbage collect: vi. (also `garbage
collection', n.) see {GC}. :garply: /gar'plee/ n. [Stanford] Another
metasyntactic variable (see {foo}); once popular among SAIL hackers. :gas:
[as in `gas chamber'] 1. interj. A term of disgust and hatred, implying that
gas should be dispensed in generous quantities, thereby exterminating the
source of irritation. "Some loser just reloaded the system for no reason!
Gas!" 2. interj. A suggestion that someone or something ought to be flushed
out of mercy. "The system's getting {wedged} every few minutes. Gas!" 3. vt.
To {flush} (sense 1). "You should gas that old crufty software." 4. [IBM] n.
Dead space in nonsequentially organized files that was occupied by data that
has since been deleted; the compression operation that removes it is called
`degassing' (by analogy, perhaps, with the use of the same term in vacuum
technology). 5. [IBM] n. Empty space on a disk that has been clandestinely
allocated against future need. :gaseous: adj. Deserving of being {gas}sed.
Disseminated by Geoff Goodfellow while at SRI; became particularly popular
after the Moscone-Milk killings in San Francisco, when it was learned that
the defendant Dan White (a politician who had supported Proposition 7) would
get the gas chamber under Proposition 7 if convicted of first-degree murder
(he was eventually convicted of manslaughter). :Gates's Law: "The speed of
software halves every 18 months." This oft-cited law is an ironic comment on
the tendency of software bloat to outpace the every-18-month doubling in
hardware caopacity per dollar predicted by {Moore's Law}. The reference is to
Bill Gates; Microsoft is widely considered among the worst if not the worst
of the perpetrators of bloat. :gawble: /gaw'bl/ n. see {chawmp}. :GC: /G-C/
[from LISP terminology; `Garbage Collect'] 1. vt. To clean up and throw away
useless things. "I think I'll GC the top of my desk today." When said of
files, this is equivalent to {GFR}. 2. vt. To recycle, reclaim, or put to
another use. 3. n. An instantiation of the garbage collector process.
`Garbage collection' is computer-science techspeak for a particular class of
strategies for dynamically but transparently reallocating computer memory
(i.e., without requiring explicit allocation and deallocation by higher-level
software). One such strategy involves periodically scanning all the data in
memory and determining what is no longer accessible; useless data items are
then discarded so that the memory they occupy can be recycled and used for
another purpose. Implementations of the LISP language usually use garbage
collection. In jargon, the full phrase is sometimes heard but the {abbrev} GC
is more frequently used because it is shorter. Note that there is an
ambiguity in usage that has to be resolved by context: "I'm going to
garbage-collect my desk" usually means to clean out the drawers, but it could
also mean to throw away or recycle the desk itself. :GCOS:: /jee'kohs/ n. A
{quick-and-dirty} {clone} of System/360 DOS that emerged from GE around 1970;
originally called GECOS (the General Electric Comprehensive Operating
System). Later kluged to support primitive timesharing and transaction
processing. After the buyout of GE's computer division by Honeywell, the name
was changed to General Comprehensive Operating System (GCOS). Other OS groups
at Honeywell began referring to it as `God's Chosen Operating System',
allegedly in reaction to the GCOS crowd's uninformed and snotty attitude
about the superiority of their product. All this might be of zero interest,
except for two facts: (1) The GCOS people won the political war, and this led
in the orphaning and eventual death of Honeywell {{Multics}}, and (2)
GECOS/GCOS left one permanent mark on Unix. Some early Unix systems at Bell
Labs used GCOS machines for print spooling and various other services; the
field added to `/etc/passwd' to carry GCOS ID information was called the
`GECOS field' and survives today as the `pw_gecos' member used for the user's
full name and other human-ID information.