 :geek: n. A person who has chosen concentration rather than conformity; one
who pursues skill (especially technical skill) and imagination, not
mainstream social acceptance. Geeks usually have a strong case of
{neophilia}. Most geeks are adept with computers and treat {hacker} as a term
of respect, but not all are hackers themselves - and some who _are_ in fact
hackers normally call themselves geeks anyway, because they (quite properly)
regard `hacker' as a label that should be bestowed by others rather than
self-assumed. One description (http://www.darkwater.com/omni/geek.html)
accurately if a little breathlessly enumerates "gamers, ravers, science
fiction fans, punks, perverts, programmers, nerds, subgenii, and trekkies.
These are people who did not go to their high school proms, and many would be
offended by the suggestion that they should have even wanted to." Originally,
a `geek' was a carnival performer who bit the heads off chickens. Before
about 1990 usage of this term was rather negative. Earlier versions of this
lexicon defined a `computer geek' as one who eats (computer) bugs for a
living - an asocial, malodorous, pasty-faced monomaniac with all the
personality of a cheese grater. This is often still the way geeks are
regarded by non-geeks, but as the mainstream culture becomes more dependent
on technology and technical skill mainstream attitudes have tended to shift
towards grudging respect. Correspondingly, there are now `geek pride'
festivals (the implied reference to `gay pride' is not accidental). see also
{propeller head}, {clustergeeking}, {geek out}, {wannabee}, {terminal
junkie}, {spod}, {weenie}, {geek code}.