 GIGO: /gie'goh/ [acronym] 1. Garbage In, Garbage out --- usually said in
response to lusers who complain that a program didn't complain about faulty
data. Also commonly used to describe failures in human decision making due to
faulty, incomplete, or imprecise data. 2. Garbage In, Gospel Out --- this
more recent expansion is a sardonic comment on the tendency human beings have
to put excessive trust in "computerized" data. gillion: /jill'y@n/ n. 10 ^ 9.
[From {giga-}, following construction of mega/million and notional
tera/trillion] Same as an American billion or a British `milliard'. glark:
/glark/ vt. To figure something out from context. "The System III manuals are
pretty poor, but you can generally glark the meaning from context".
Interestingly, the word was originally `glork'; the context was "This
gubblick contains many nonsklarkish English flutzpahs, but the overall
pluggandisp can be glorked [sic] from context," by David Moser, quoted by
Douglas Hofstadter in his `Metamagical Themas' column in the January 1981
Scientific American. It is conjectured that hackish usage mutated the verb to
`glark' because {glork} was already an established jargon term. glass: [IBM]
n. Synonym for {silicon}. glass tty: /glas tee-tee-wie/ or /glas ti'tee/ n. A
terminal which has a display screen but which, because of hardware or
software limitations, behaves like a teletype or other printing terminal,
thereby combining the disadvantages of both: like a printing terminal, it
can't do fancy display hacks, and like a display terminal, it doesn't produce
hard copy. An example is the early `dumb' version of Lear-Siegler ADM-3
(without cursor control). see {tube}, {tty}. see Appendix A for an
interesting true story about glass ttys. glassfet: /glas'fet/ [by analogy
with MOSFET, Metal Oxide Field Effect Transistor] n. Same as {firebottle}, a
humorous way to refer to a vacuum tube. glitch: /glich/ [from German
`glitschen' to slip, via Yiddish `glitshen', to slide or skid] 1. n. A sudden
interruption in electric service, sanity, continuity, or program function.
Sometimes recoverable. An interruption in electric service is specifically
called a `power glitch'. This is of grave concern because it usually crashes
all the computers. More common in slang, though, a hacker who got to the
middle of a sentence and then forgot how he or she intended to complete it
might say, "Sorry, I just glitched". 2. vi. To commit a glitch. see {gritch}.
3. vt. [Stanford] To scroll a display screen several lines at a time. This
derives from some oddities in the terminal behavior under the mutant TOPS-10
formerly used at SAIL. 4. (obs.) Same as {magic cookie}, sense #2. glob:
/glob/, *not* /glohb/ [UNIX, from `glob', the name of a subprogram that
translated wildcards in archaic Bourne Shell versions] vt.,n. To expand
special characters in a wildcarded name, or the act of so doing (the action
is also called `globbing'). The UNIX conventions for filename wildcarding
have become sufficiently pervasive that many hackers use some of them in
written English, especially in email or news on technical topics. Those
commonly encountered include: * wildcard for any string (see also {UN*X}). ?
wildcard for any character (generally only read this way at the beginning or
in the middle of a word). [] wildcard matching one character from a specified
set. {} alternation of comma-separated alternatives. Thus, `foo{baz,qux}'
would be read as `foobaz' or `fooqux'. Some examples: "He said his name was
[KC]arl" (expresses ambiguity). "That got posted to talk.politics.*" (all the
talk.politics subgroups on {USENET}). Other examples are given under the
entry for {X}. glork: /glork/ 1. interj. Term of mild surprise, usually
tinged with outrage, as when one attempts to save the results of two hours of
editing and finds that the system has just crashed. 2. Used as a name for
just about anything. see {foo}. 3. vt. Similar to {glitch}, but usually used
reflexively. "My program just glorked itself." glue: n. Generic term for any
interface logic or protocol that connects between two monolithic component
blocks. For example, the {Blue Glue} is IBM's SNA protocol, and hardware
designers call anything used to connect large VLSI's or circuit blocks "glue
logic". gnarly: adj. Both {obscure} and {hairy} in the sense of complex.
"Yeech --- the tuned assembler implementation of BitBlt is really gnarly!"
From a similar but less specific usage in surfer slang.