 GIPS: [analogy with MIPS] n. Gillons of Instructions per Second. In 1991
this rather silly acronym is used of only a handful of highly parallel
machines, but this is expected to change. glark: /glark/ vt. To figure
something out from context. "The System III manuals are pretty poor, but you
can generally glark the meaning from context." Interestingly, the word was
originally `glork'; the context was: "This gubblick contains many
nonsklarkish English flutzpahs, but the overall pluggandisp can be glorked
[sic] from context", by David Moser, quoted by Douglas Hofstadter in his
`Metamagical Themas' column in the January 1981 Scientific American. It is
conjectured that hackish usage mutated the verb to `glark' because {glork}
was already an established jargon term. glass: [IBM] n. Synonym for
{silicon}. glass tty: /glas tee-tee-wie/ or /glas ti'tee/ n. A terminal which
has a display screen but which, because of hardware or software limitations,
behaves like a teletype or other printing terminal, thereby combining the
disadvantages of both: like a printing terminal, it can't do fancy display
hacks, and like a display terminal, it doesn't produce hard copy. An example
is the early `dumb' version of Lear-Siegler ADM-3 (without cursor control).
see {tube}, {tty}. see Appendix A for an interesting true story about a glass
tty. glassfet: /glas'fet/ [by analogy with MOSFET the acronym for
Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor Field-Effect-Transistor] n. Syn. {firebottle}, a
humorous way to refer to a vacuum tube. glitch: /glich/ [from German
`glitschen' to slip, via Yiddish `glitshen', to slide or skid] 1. n. A sudden
interruption in electric service, sanity, continuity, or program function.
Sometimes recoverable. An interruption in electric service is specifically
called a `power glitch'. This is of grave concern because it usually crashes
all the computers. More common in jargon, though, a hacker who got to the
middle of a sentence and then forgot how he or she intended to complete it
might say, "Sorry, I just glitched". 2. vi. To commit a glitch. see {gritch}.
3. vt. [Stanford] To scroll a display screen several lines at a time. This
derives from some oddities in the terminal behavior under {WAITS}. 4. obs.
Same as {magic cookie}, sense #2. All these uses of `glitch' derive from the
specific technical meaning the term has to hardware people. If the inputs of
a circuit change, and the outputs are supposed to change to some new value,
and they change to some random value for some very brief time before they
settle down to the correct value, then that is called a glitch. This may or
may not be harmful, depending on what the circuit is connected to. This term
is found in electronic texts. glob: /glob/, *not* /glohb/ [UNIX] vt.,n. To
expand special characters in a wildcarded name, or the act of so doing (the
action is also called `globbing'). The UNIX conventions for filename
wildcarding have become sufficiently pervasive that many hackers use some of
them in written English, especially in email or news on technical topics.
Those commonly encountered include: * wildcard for any string (see also
{UN*X}). ? wildcard for any character (generally only read this way at the
beginning or in the middle of a word). [] delimits a wildcard matching any of
the enclosed characters. {} alternation of comma-separated alternatives.
Thus, `foo{baz,qux}' would be read as `foobaz' or `fooqux'. Some examples:
"He said his name was [KC]arl" (expresses ambiguity). "That got posted to
talk.politics.*" (all the talk.politics subgroups on {USENET}). Other
examples are given under the entry for {X}. Compare {regexp}. Historical
note: the jargon usage derives from `glob', the name of a subprogram that
expanded wildcards in archaic Bourne Shell versions; this was necessary
because early UNIX machines had so little memory glork: /glork/ 1. interj.
Term of mild surprise, usually tinged with outrage, as when one attempts to
save the results of two hours of editing and finds that the system has just
crashed. 2. Used as a name for just about anything. see {foo}. 3. vt. Similar
to {glitch}, but usually used reflexively. "My program just glorked itself."
glue: n. Generic term for any interface logic or protocol that connects
between two component blocks. For example, the {Blue Glue} is IBM's SNA
protocol, and hardware designers call anything used to connect large VLSI's
or circuit blocks "glue logic". gnarly: adj. Both {obscure} and {hairy} in
the sense of complex. "Yeech --- the tuned assembler implementation of BitBlt
is really gnarly!" From a similar but less specific usage in surfer slang.