 1991 is that copyright law limits the scope of the GPL to "programs
textually incorporating significant amounts of GNU code", and that the
`infection' is not passed on to third parties unless actual GNU source is
transmitted. Nevertheless, widespread suspicion that the {copyleft} language
is `boobytrapped' has caused many developers to avoid using GNU tools and the
GPL. Changes in the language of the version 2.0 GPL did not eliminate this
problem. :generate: vt. To produce something according to an algorithm or
program or set of rules, or as a (possibly unintended) side effect of the
execution of an algorithm or program. The opposite of {parse}. This term
retains its mechanistic connotations (though often humorously) when used of
human behavior. "The guy is rational most of the time, but mention nuclear
energy around him and he'll generate {infinite} flamage." :Genius From Mars
Technique: n. [TMRC] A visionary quality which enables one to ignore the
standard approach and come up with a totally unexpected new algorithm. An
attack on a problem from an offbeat angle that no one has ever thought of
before, but that in retrospect makes total sense. Compare {grok}, {zen}.
:gensym: /jen'sim/ [from MacLISP for `generated symbol'] 1. v. To invent a
new name for something temporary, in such a way that the name is almost
certainly not in conflict with one already in use. 2. n. The resulting name.
The canonical form of a gensym is `Gnnnn' where nnnn represents a number; any
LISP hacker would recognize G0093 (for example) as a gensym. 3. A freshly
generated data structure with a gensymmed name. Gensymmed names are useful
for storing or uniquely identifying crufties (see {cruft}). :Get a life!:
imp. Hacker-standard way of suggesting that the person to whom it is directed
has succumbed to terminal geekdom (see {computer geek}). Often heard on
{Usenet}, esp. as a way of suggesting that the target is taking some obscure
issue of {theology} too seriously. This exhortation was popularized by
William Shatner on a 1987 "Saturday Night Live" episode in a speech that
ended "Get a _life_!", but some respondents believe it to have been in use
before then. It was certainly in wide use among hackers for years before
achieving mainstream currency via the sitcom "Get A Life" in 1990. :Get a
real computer!: imp. Typical hacker response to news that somebody is having
trouble getting work done on a system that (a) is single-tasking, (b) has no
hard disk, or (c) has an address space smaller than 16 megabytes. This is as
of early 1996; note that the threshold for `real computer' rises with time.
see {bitty box} and {toy}. :GFR: /G-F-R/ vt. [ITS: from `Grim File Reaper',
an ITS and LISP Machine utility] To remove a file or files according to some
program-automated or semi-automatic manual procedure, especially one designed
to reclaim mass storage space or reduce name-space clutter (the original GFR
actually moved files to tape). Often generalized to pieces of data below file
level. "I used to have his phone number, but I guess I {GFR}ed it." see also
{prowler}, {reaper}. Compare {GC}, which discards only provably worthless
stuff. :gib: /jib/ 1. vi. To destroy utterly. Like {frag}, but much more
violent and final. "There's no trace left. You definitely gibbed that bug".
2. n. Remnants after total obliteration. Originated first by id software in
the game Quake. It's short for giblets (thus pronounced "jib"), and referred
to the bloody remains of slain opponents. Eventually the word was verbed, and
leaked into general usage afterward. :GIFs at 11: [Fidonet] Fidonet
alternative to {film at 11}, especially in echoes (Fidonet topic areas) where
uuencoded GIFs are permitted. Other formats, especially JPEG and MPEG, may be
referenced instead. :gig: /jig/ or /gig/ n. [SI] see {{quantifiers}}. :giga-:
/ji'ga/ or /gi'ga/ pref. [SI] see {{quantifiers}}. :GIGO: /gi:'goh/ [acronym]
1. `Garbage In, Garbage Out' -- usually said in response to {luser}s who
complain that a program didn't "do the right thing" when given imperfect
input or otherwise mistreated in some way. Also commonly used to describe
failures in human decision making due to faulty, incomplete, or imprecise
data. 2. `Garbage In, Gospel Out': this more recent expansion is a sardonic
comment on the tendency human beings have to put excessive trust in
`computerized' data. :gilley: n. [Usenet] The unit of analogical {bogosity}.
According to its originator, the standard for one gilley was "the act of
bogotoficiously comparing the shutting down of 1000 machines for a day with
the killing of one person". The milligilley has been found to suffice for
most normal conversational exchanges. :gillion: /gil'y*n/ or /jil'y*n/ n.
[formed from {giga-} by analogy with mega/million and tera/trillion] 10^9.
Same as an American billion or a British `milliard'. How one pronounces this
depends on whether one speaks {giga-} with a hard or soft `g'. :ginger: n.
see {saga}. :GIPS: /gips/ or /jips/ n. [analogy with {MIPS}]
Giga-Instructions per Second (also possibly `Gillions of Instructions per
Second'; see {gillion}). In 1991, this is used of only a handful of highly
parallel machines, but this is expected to change. Compare {KIPS}. :glark:
/glark/ vt. To figure something out from context. "The System III manuals are
pretty poor, but you can generally glark the meaning from context."
Interestingly, the word was originally `glork'; the context was "This
gubblick contains many nonsklarkish English flutzpahs, but the overall
pluggandisp can be glorked [sic] from context" (David Moser, quoted by
Douglas Hofstadter in his "Metamagical Themas" column in the January 1981
"Scientific American"). It is conjectured that hacker usage mutated the verb
to `glark' because {glork} was already an established jargon term (some
hackers do report using the original term). Compare {grok}, {zen}. :glass: n.
[IBM] Synonym for {silicon}. :glass tty: /glas T-T-Y/ or /glas ti'tee/ n. A
terminal that has a display screen but which, because of hardware or software
limitations, behaves like a teletype or some other printing terminal, thereby
combining the disadvantages of both: like a printing terminal, it can't do
fancy display hacks, and like a display terminal, it doesn't produce hard
copy. An example is the early `dumb' version of Lear-Siegler ADM 3 (without
cursor control). see {tube}, {tty}; compare {dumb terminal}, {smart
terminal}. see "{TV Typewriters}" (Appendix A) for an interesting true story
about a glass tty. :glassfet: /glas'fet/ n. [by analogy with MOSFET, the
acronym for `Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor Field-Effect Transistor'] Syn.
{firebottle}, a humorous way to refer to a vacuum tube. :glitch: /glich/
[very common; from German `glitschig' to slip, via Yiddish `glitshen', to
slide or skid] 1. n. A sudden interruption in electric service, sanity,
continuity, or program function. Sometimes recoverable. An interruption in
electric service is specifically called a `power glitch' (also {power hit}),
of grave concern because it usually crashes all the computers. In jargon,
though, a hacker who got to the middle of a sentence and then forgot how he
or she intended to complete it might say, "Sorry, I just glitched". 2. vi. To
commit a glitch. see {gritch}. 3. vt. [Stanford] To scroll a display screen,
esp. several lines at a time. {{WAITS}} terminals used to do this in order to
avoid continuous scrolling, which is distracting to the eye.