 GNUMACS: /gnoo'maks/ [contraction of `GNU EMACS'] Often-heard abbreviated
name for the {GNU} project's flagship tool, {EMACS}. Used esp. in contrast
with {GOSMACS}. go flatline: [from cyberpunk SF, refers to flattening of EEG
traces upon brain-death] vi., also adjectival `flatlined'. 1. To die,
terminate, or fail, esp. irreversibly. In hacker parlance, this is used of
machines only, human death being considered somewhat too serious a matter to
employ jargon-jokes about. 2. To go completely quiescent; said of machines
undergoing controlled shutdown. "You can suffer file damage if you shut down
UNIX but power off before the system has gone flatline." 3. Of a video tube,
to fail by losing vertical scan, so all one sees is a bright horizontal line
bisecting the screen. go root: [UNIX] vi. To temporarily enter {root mode} in
order to perform a privileged operation. This use is deprecated in Australia,
where v. `root' is roughly synonymous with `fuck'. gobble: vt. To consume or
to obtain. The phrase `gobble up' tends to imply `consume', while `gobble
down' tends to imply `obtain'. "The output spy gobbles characters out of a
{tty} output buffer." "I guess I'll gobble down a copy of the documentation
tomorrow." see also {snarf}. {Godzillagram} n. [from Japan's national hero]
1. A network packet that in theory is a broadcast to every machine in the
universe. The typical case of this is an IP datagram whose destination IP
address is [255.255.255.255]. Fortunately, few gateways are foolish enough to
attempt to implement this! 2. A network packet of maximum size. An IP
Godzillagram has 65,536 octets. golden: adj. [perh. from folklore's `golden
egg'] When used to describe a magnetic medium (e.g. `golden disk', `golden
tape'), describes one containing a tested, up-to-spec, ready-to-ship software
version. Compare {platinum-iridium}. golf-ball printer: n. A slow but
letter-quality printing device and terminal (the IBM 2741) based on the IBM
Selectric typewriter. The `golf ball' was a round object bearing mirror-image
embossed images of 88 different characters (arranged on four lines of
latitude); one could change the font by swapping in a different golf ball.
This was the technology that enabled APL to use a non-EBCDIC, non-ASCII, and
in fact completely non-standard character set; this put it ten years ahead of
its time --- where it stayed, firmly rooted, for the next twenty, until
character displays gave way to programmable bit-mapped devices with the
flexibility to support other character sets. gonk: /gonk/ vt.,n. 1. To
prevaricate or to embellish the truth beyond any reasonable recognition. It
is alleged that in German the term is (fictively) `gonken', in Spanish the
verb becomes `gonkar'. "You're gonking me. That story you just told me is a
bunch of gonk." In German, for example, "Du gonkst mir" (You're pulling my
leg). see also {gonkulator}. 2. [British] To grab some sleep at an odd time;
compare {gronk} (sense #4). gonkulator: /gon'kyoo-lay-tr/ [from the old
`Hogan's Heroes' TV series] n. A pretentious piece of equipment that actually
serves no useful purpose. Usually used to describe one's least favorite piece
of computer hardware. see {gonk}. gonzo: /gon'zo/ [from Hunter S. Thompson]
adj. Overwhelming; outrageous; over the top; very large, esp. used of
collections of source code, source files or individual functions. Has some of
the connotations of {moby} and {hairy}. Good Thing: n.,adj. Often
capitalized; always pronounced as if capitalized. 1. Self-evidently wonderful
to anyone in a position to notice: "The Trailblazer's 19.2Kbaud PEP mode with
on-the-fly Lempel-Ziv compression is a Good Thing for sites relaying
netnews." 2. Something that can't possibly have any ill side-effects and may
save considerable grief later: "Removing the self-modifying code from that
shared library would be a Good Thing." 3. When said of software tools or
libraries, as in "YACC is a Good Thing", specifically connotes that the thing
has drastically reduced a programmer's work load. Oppose {Bad Thing}. gorilla
arm: n. The side-effect that destroyed touch-screens as a mainstream input
technology despite a promising start in the early eighties. It seems the
designers of all those {spiffy} touch-menu systems failed to notice that
humans aren't designed to hold their arms in front of their faces making
small motions. After more than a very few selections, the arm begins to feel
sore, cramped, and oversized, hence `gorilla arm'. This is now considered a
classic cautionary tale to human-factors designers; "Remember the gorilla
arm!" is shorthand for "How's this gonna fly in *real* use?". gorp: /gorp/
[CMU, perhaps from the canonical hiker's food, Good Old Raisins and Peanuts]
Another metasyntactic variable, like {foo} and {bar}.