 GPV: /G-P-V/ n. Abbrev. for {General Public Virus} in widespread use.
grault: /grawlt/ n. Yet another meta-syntactic variable, invented by Mike
Gallaher and propagated by the {GOSMACS} documentation. see {corge}. gray
goo: n. A hypothetical substance composed of {sagan}s of sub-micron-sized
self-replicating robots programmed to make copies of themselves out of
whatever is available. The image that goes with the term is one of the entire
biosphere of Earth being eventually converted to robot goo. This is the
simplest of the {{nanotechnology}} disaster scenarios, easily refuted by
arguments from energy requirements and elemental abundances. Compare {blue
goo}. Great Renaming: n. The {flag day} on which all of the non-local groups
on the {USENET} had their names changed from the net.- format to the current
multiple-hierarchies scheme. Great Runes: n. Uppercase-only text or display
messages. Some archaic operating systems still emit these. see also {runes},
{smash case}, {fold case}. Decades ago, back in the days when it was the sole
supplier of long-distance hardcopy transmittal devices, the Teletype
Corporation was faced with a major design choice. To shorten code lengths and
cut complexity in the printing mechanism, it had been decided that teletypes
would use a monocase font, either ALL UPPER or all lower. The question was,
which one to choose. A study was conducted on readability under various
conditions of bad ribbon, worn print hammers, etc. Lowercase won; it is less
dense and has more distinctive letterforms, and is thus much easier to read
both under ideal conditions and when the letters are mangled or partly
obscured. The results were filtered up through {management}. The chairman of
Teletype killed the proposal because it failed one incredibly important
criterion: "It would be impossible to spell the name of the Deity correctly."
In this way (or so, at least, hacker folklore has it) superstition triumphed
over utility. Teletypes were the major input devices on most early computers,
and terminal manufacturers looking for corners to cut naturally followed suit
until well into the 1970s. Thus, that one bad call stuck us with Great Runes
for thirty years. great-wall: [from SF fandom] vi.,n. A mass expedition to an
oriental restaurant, esp. one where food is served family-style and shared.
There is a common heuristic about the amount of food to order, expressed as
"Get N - 1 entrees"; the value of N, which is the number of people in the
group, can be inferred from context (see {N}). see {{oriental food}}, {ravs},
{stir-fried random}. Green Book: n. 1. One of the three standard PostScript
references: `PostScript Language Program Design', bylined `Adobe Systems'
(Addison-Wesley, 1988; QA76.73.P67P66 ISBN; 0-201-14396-8); see also {Red
Book}, {Blue Book}). 2. Informal name for one of the three standard
references on SmallTalk: `Smalltalk-80: Bits of History, Words of Advice', by
Glenn Krasner (Addison-Wesley, 1983; QA76.8.S635S58; ISBN 0-201-11669-3)
(this, too, is associated with blue and red books). 3. The `X/Open
Compatibility Guide'. Defines an international standard {{UNIX}} environment
that is a proper superset of POSIX/SVID; also includes descriptions of a
standard utility toolkit, systems administrations features, and the like.
This grimoire is taken with particular seriousness in Europe. see {Purple
Book}. 4. The IEEE 1003.1 POSIX Operating Systems Interface standard has been
dubbed "The Ugly Green Book". 5. Any of the 1992 standards which will be
issued by the CCITT's tenth plenary assembly. Until now, these have changed
color each review cycle (1984 was {Red Book}, 1988 {Blue Book}); however, it
is rumored that this convention is going to be dropped before 1992. These
include, among other things, the X.400 email standard and the Group 1 through
4 fax standards. see also {{book titles}}. green bytes: n. 1.
Meta-information embedded in a file, such as the length of the file or its
name; as opposed to keeping such information in a separate description file
or record. The term comes from an IBM user's group meeting (ca. 1962) at
which these two approaches were being debated and the diagram of the file on
the blackboard had the `green bytes' drawn in green. 2. By extension, the
non-data bits in any self-describing format. "A GIF file contains, among
other things, green bytes describing the packing method for the image."
Compare {out-of-band}, {zigamorph}, {fence} (sense 1). green card: n. [after
the `IBM System/360 Reference Data' card] This is used for any summary of an
assembly language, even if the color is not green. Less frequently used now
because of the decrease in the use of assembly language. "I'll go get my
green card so I can check the addressing mode for that instruction." Some
green cards are actually booklets. The original green card became a yellow
card when the System/370 was introduced, and later a yellow booklet. An
anecdote from IBM refers to a scene that took place in a programmers'
terminal room at Yorktown in 1978. A luser overheard one of the programmers
ask another "Do you have a green card?" The other grunted and passed the
first a thick yellow booklet. At this point the luser turned a delicate shade
of olive and rapidly left the room, never to return. see also {card}. green
lightning: [IBM] n. 1. Apparently random flashing streaks on the face of
3278-9 terminals while a new symbol set is being downloaded. This hardware
bug was left deliberately unfixed, as some genius within IBM suggested it
would let the user know that `something is happening'. That, it certainly
does. Later microprocessor-driven IBM color graphics displays were actually
*programmed* to produce green lightning! 2. [proposed] Any bug perverted into
an alleged feature by adroit rationalization or marketing. "Motorola calls
the CISC cruft in the 88000 architecture `compatibility logic', but I call it
green lightning". see also {feature}. green machine: n. A computer or
peripheral device that has been designed and built to military specifications
for field equipment (that is, to withstand mechanical shock, extremes of
temperature and humidity, and so forth). Comes from the olive-drab `uniform'
paint used for military equipment. Green's Theorem: [TMRC] prov. For any
story, in any group of people there will be at least one person who has not
heard the story. [The name of this theorem is a play on a fundamental theorem
in calculus. --- ESR] grep: /grep/ [from the qed/ed editor idiom g/re/p ,
where re stands for a regular expression, to Globally search for the Regular
Expression and Print the lines containing matches to it, via {{UNIX}}
`grep(1)'] vt. To rapidly scan a file or file set looking for a particular
string or pattern. By extension, to look for something by pattern. "Grep the
bulletin board for the system backup schedule, would you?" see also {vgrep}.
grind: vt. 1. [MIT and Berkeley] To format code, especially LISP code, by
indenting lines so that it looks pretty. This usage was associated with the
MacLISP community and is now rare; {prettyprint} was and is the generic term
for such operations. 2. [UNIX] To generate the formatted version of a
document from the nroff, troff, TeX, or Scribe source. The BSD program
`vgrind(1)' grinds code for printing on a Versatec bitmapped printer. 3. To
run seemingly interminably, esp. (but not necessarily) if performing some
tedious and inherently useless task. Similar to {crunch} or {grovel}.
Grinding has a connotation of using a lot of CPU time, but it is possible to
grind a disk, network, etc. see also {hog}. 4. To make the whole system slow.
"Troff really grinds a PDP-11." 5. `grind grind' excl. Roughly, "Isn't the
machine slow today!" grind crank: n. A mythical accessory to a terminal. A
crank on the side of a monitor, which when operated makes a zizzing noise and
causes the computer to run faster. Usually one does not refer to a grind
crank out loud, but merely makes the appropriate gesture and noise. see
{grind} and {wugga wugga}. Historical note: At least one real machine
actually had a grind crank --- the R1, a research machine built toward the
end of the days of the great vacuum tube computers, in 1959. R1 (also known
as `The Rice Institute Computer' (TRIC) and later as `The Rice University
Computer' (TRUC)) had a single-step/free-run switch for use when debugging
programs. Since single-stepping through a large program was rather tedious,
there was also a crank with a cam and gear arrangement that repeatedly pushed
the single-step button. This allowed one to `crank' through a lot of code,
then slow down to single-step for a bit when you got near the code of
interest, poke at some registers using the console typewriter, and then keep
on cranking. gritch: /grich/ 1. n. A complaint (often caused by a {glitch}).
2. vi. To complain. Often verb-doubled: "Gritch gritch". 3. A synonym for
{glitch} (as verb or noun). grok: /grok/, var. /grohk/ [from the novel
`Stranger in a Strange Land', by Robert A. Heinlein, where it is a Martian
word meaning literally `to drink' and metaphorically `to be one with'] vt. 1.
To understand, usually in a global sense. Connotes intimate and exhaustive
knowledge. Contrast {zen}, similar supernal understanding as a single brief
flash. see also {glark}. 2. Used of programs, may connote merely sufficient
understanding. "Almost all C compilers grok the `void' type these days."
gronk: /gronk/ [popularized by Johnny Hart's comic strip "B.C." but the word
apparently predates that] vt. 1. To clear the state of a wedged device and
restart it. More severe than `to {frob}'. 2. [TMRC] To cut, sever, smash, or
similarly disable. 3. The sound made by many 3.5-inch diskette drives. In
particular, the microfloppies on a Commodore Amiga go "grink, gronk". gronk
out: vi. To cease functioning. Of people, to go home and go to sleep. "I
guess I'll gronk out now; see you all tomorrow." gronked: adj. 1. Broken.
"The teletype scanner was gronked, so we took the system down." 2. Of people,
the condition of feeling very tired or (less commonly) sick. "I've been
chasing that bug for 17 hours now and I am thoroughly gronked!" Compare
{broken}, which means about the same as {gronk} used of hardware, but
connotes depression or mental/emotional problems in people. grovel: vi. 1. To
work interminably and without apparent progress. Often used transitively with
`over' or `through'. "The file scavenger has been groveling through the file
directories for 10 minutes now." Compare {grind} and {crunch}. Emphatic form:
`grovel obscenely'. 2. To examine minutely or in complete detail. "The
compiler grovels over the entire source program before beginning to translate
it." "I grovelled through all the documentation, but I still couldn't find
the command I wanted." grunge: /gruhnj/ n. 1. That which is grungy, or that
which makes it so. 2. [Cambridge] Code which is inaccessible due to changes
in other parts of the program. The preferred term in North America is {dead
code}. gubbish: /guhb'*sh/ [a portmanteau of `garbage' and `rubbish'?] n.
Garbage; crap; nonsense. "What is all this gubbish?" The opposite portmanteau
`rubbage' is also reported. guiltware: /gilt'weir/ n. 1. A piece of
{freeware} decorated with a message telling one how long and hard the author
worked on it and intimating that one is a no-good freeloader if one does not
immediately send the poor suffering martyr gobs of money. 2. {Shareware} that
works. gumby: /guhm'bee/ [from a class of Monty Python characters, poss.
themselves named after the 1960s claymation character] n. An act of minor but
conspicuous stupidity, often in `gumby maneuver' or `pull a gumby'. gun:
[ITS: from the `:GUN' command] vt. To forcibly terminate a program or job
(computer, not career). "Some idiot left a background process running soaking
up half the cycles, so I gunned it." Compare {can}. gunch: /guhnch/ [TMRC]
vt. To push, prod, or poke at a device that has almost produced the desired
result. Implies a threat to {mung}. gurfle: /ger'fl/ interj. An expression of
shocked disbelief. "He said we have to recode this thing in FORTRAN by next
week. Gurfle!" Compare {weeble}. guru: n. 1. [UNIX] An expert. Implies not
only {wizard} skill but also a history of being a knowledge resource for
others. Less often, used (with a qualifier) for other experts on other
systems, as in `VMS guru'. see {source of all good bits}. 2. Amiga equivalent
of `panic' in UNIX. When the system crashes, a cryptic message "GURU
MEDITATION #XXXXXXXX.YYYYYYYY" appears, indicating what the problem was. An
Amiga guru can figure things out from the numbers. Generally a {guru} event
must be followed by a {Vulcan nerve pinch}. = H = ===== h: [from SF fandom]
infix. A method of `marking' common words, i.e., calling attention to the
fact that they are being used in a nonstandard, ironic, or humorous way.
Originated in the fannish catchphrase "Bheer is the One True Ghod!" from
decades ago. H-infix marking of `Ghod' and other words spread into the 1960s
counterculture via underground comix, and into early hackerdom either from
the counterculture or from SF fandom (the three overlapped heavily at the
time). More recently, the h infix has become an expected feature of benchmark
names (Dhrystone, Rhealstone, etc.); this is prob. patterning on the original
Whetstone (the name of a laboratory) but influenced by the
fannish/counterculture h infix. ha ha only serious: [from SF fandom, orig. as
mutation of HHOK, `Ha Ha Only Kidding'] A phrase (often seen abbreviated as
HHOS) that aptly captures the flavor of much hacker discourse. Applied
especially to parodies, absurdities, and ironic jokes that are both intended
and perceived to contain a possibly disquieting amount of truth, or truths
that are constructed on in-joke and self-parody. This lexicon contains many
examples of ha-ha-only-serious in both form and content. Indeed, the entirety
of hacker culture is often perceived as ha-ha-only-serious by hackers
themselves; to take it either too lightly or too seriously marks a person as
an outsider, a {wannabee}, or in {larval stage}. For further enlightenment on
this subject, consult any Zen master. see also {{Humor, Hacker}}, and {AI
koans}. hack: 1. n. Originally, a quick job that produces what is needed, but
not well. 2. n. An incredibly good, and perhaps very time-consuming, piece of
work that produces exactly what is needed. 3. vt. To bear emotionally or
physically. "I can't hack this heat!" 4. vt. To work on something (typically
a program). In an immediate sense: "What are you doing?" "I'm hacking TECO."
In a general (time-extended) sense: "What do you do around here?" "I hack
TECO." More generally, "I hack `foo'" is roughly equivalent to "`foo' is my
major interest (or project)". "I hack solid-state physics." 5. vt. To pull a
prank on. see sense 2 and {hacker} (sense 5). 6. vi. To interact with a
computer in a playful and exploratory rather than goal-directed way. "Whatcha
up to?" "Oh, just hacking." 7. n. Short for {hacker}. 8. see {nethack}.
Constructions on this term abound. They include `happy hacking' (a farewell),
`how's hacking?' (a friendly greeting among hackers) and `hack, hack' (a
fairly content-free but friendly comment, often used as a temporary
farewell). For more on the meaning of hack see appendix A. see also {neat
hack}, {real hack}. hack attack: [poss. by analogy with `Big Mac Attack' from
ads for the McDonald's fast-food chain; the variant `big hack attack' is
reported] n. Nearly synonymous with {hacking run}, though the latter more
strongly implies an all-nighter. hack mode: n. 1. What one is in when
hacking, of course. 2. More specifically, a Zen-like state of total focus on
The Problem that may be achieved when one is hacking (this is why every good
hacker is part mystic). Ability to enter such concentration at will
correlates strongly with wizardliness; it is one of the most important skills
learned during {larval stage}. Sometimes amplified as `deep hack mode'. Being
yanked out of hack mode (see {priority interrupt}) may be experienced as a
physical shock, and the sensation of being in it is more than a little
habituating. The intensity of this experience is probably by itself
sufficient explanation for the existence of hackers, and explains why many
resist being promoted out of positions where they can code. see also
{cyberspace} (sense 2). Some aspects of hackish etiquette will appear quite
odd to an observer unaware of the high value placed on hack mode. For
example, if someone appears at your door, it is perfectly okay to hold up a
hand (without turning one's eyes away from the screen) to avoid being
interrupted. One may read, type, and interact with the computer for quite
some time before further acknowledging the other's presence (of course, he or
she is reciprocally free to leave without a word). The understanding is that
you might be in {hack mode} with a lot of delicate {state} (sense 2) in your
head, and you dare not {swap} that context out until you have reached a good
point to pause. see also {juggling eggs}. hack on: vt. To {hack}; implies
that the subject is some pre-existing hunk of code that one is evolving, as
opposed to something one might {hack up}. hack together: vt. To throw
something together so it will work. Unlike `kluge together' or {cruft
together}, this does not necessarily have negative connotations. hack up: vt.
To {hack}, but generally implies that the result is a hack in sense 1 (a
quick hack). Contrast this with {hack on}. To `hack up on' implies a
{quick-and-dirty} modification to an existing system. Contrast {hacked up};
compare {kluge up}, {monkey up}, {cruft together}. hack value: n. Often
adduced as the reason or motivation for expending effort toward a seemingly
useless goal, the point being that the accomplished goal is a hack. For
example, MacLISP had features for reading and printing Roman numerals, which
were installed purely for hack value. see {display hack} for one method of
computing hack value, but this cannot really be explained. As a great artist
once said of jazz: "If you hafta ask, you ain't never goin' to find out."
hack-and-slay: v. (also `hack-and-slash') 1. To play a {MUD} or go mudding,
especially with the intention of {berserking} for pleasure. 2. To undertake
an all-night programming/hacking session, interspersed with stints of mudding
as a change of pace. This term arose on the British academic network amongst
students who worked nights and logged onto Essex University's MUDs during
public-access hours (2 A.M. to 7 A.M.). Usually more mudding than work was
done in these sessions. hacked off: [analogous to `pissed off'] adj. Said of
system administrators who have become annoyed, upset, or touchy owing to
suspicions that their sites have been or are going to be victimized by
crackers, or used for inappropriate, technically illegal, or even overtly
criminal activities. For example, having unreadable files in your home
directory called `worm', `lockpick', or `goroot' would probably be an
effective (as well as impressively obvious and stupid) way to get your
sysadmin hacked off at you. hacked up: adj. Sufficiently patched, kluged, and
tweaked that the surgical scars are beginning to crowd out normal tissue
(compare {critical mass}). Not all programs that are hacked become `hacked
up'; if modifications are done with some eye to coherence and continued
maintainability, the software may emerge better for the experience. Contrast
{hack up}. hacker: [originally, someone who makes furniture with an axe] n.
1. A person who enjoys exploring the details of programmable systems and how
to stretch their capabilities, as opposed to most users, who prefer to learn
only the minimum necessary. 2. One who programs enthusiastically (even
obsessively) or who enjoys programming rather than just theorizing about
programming. 3. A person capable of appreciating {hack value}. 4. A person
who is good at programming quickly. 5. An expert at a particular program, or
one who frequently does work using it or on it; as in `a UNIX hacker'.
(Definitions 1 through 5 are correlated, and people who fit them congregate.)
6. An expert or enthusiast of any kind. One might be an astronomy hacker, for
example. 7. One who enjoys the intellectual challenge of creatively
overcoming or circumventing limitations. 8. [deprecated] A malicious meddler
who tries to discover sensitive information by poking around. Hence `password
hacker', `network hacker'. see {cracker}. It is better to be described as a
hacker by others than to describe oneself that way. Hackers consider
themselves something of an elite (a meritocracy based on ability), though one
to which new members are gladly welcome. There is thus a certain ego
satisfaction to be had in identifying yourself as a hacker (but if you claim
to be one and are not, you'll quickly be labeled {bogus}). hacking run:
[analogy with `bombing run' or `speed run'] n. A hack session extended long
outside normal working times, especially one longer than 12 hours. May cause
you to `change phase the hard way' (see {phase}). Hacking X for Y: [ITS] n.
The information ITS made publicly available about each user (the INQUIR
record) was a sort of form in which the user could fill out fields. On
display, two of these fields were combined into a project description of the
form "Hacking X for Y" (e.g., `"Hacking perceptrons for Minsky"'). This form
of description became traditional and has since been carried over to other
systems with more general facilities for self-advertisement (such as UNIX
{plan file}s). Hackintosh: n. 1. An Apple Lisa that has been hacked into
emulating a Macintosh (also called a `Mac XL'). 2. A Macintosh assembled from
parts theoretically belonging to different models in the line. hackish:
/hak'ish/ adj. (also {hackishness} n.) 1. Said of something that is or
involves a hack. 2. Of or pertaining to hackers or the hacker subculture. see
also {true-hacker}. hackishness: n. The quality of being or involving a hack.
This term is considered mildly silly. Syn. {hackitude}. hackitude: n. Syn.
{hackishness}; this word is considered sillier. hair: [back-formation from
{hairy}] n. The complications that make something hairy. "Decoding {TECO}
commands requires a certain amount of hair." Often seen in the phrase
`infinite hair', which connotes extreme complexity. Also in `hairiferous'
(tending to promote hair growth): "GNUMACS Elisp encourages lusers to write
complex editing modes." "Yeah, it's pretty hairiferous all right." (or just:
"Hair squared!") hairy: adj. 1. Annoyingly complicated. "{DWIM} is incredibly
hairy." 2. Incomprehensible. "{DWIM} is incredibly hairy." 3. Of people,
high-powered, authoritative, rare, expert, and/or incomprehensible. Hard to
explain except in context: "He knows this hairy lawyer who says there's
nothing to worry about." see also {hirsute}.