 :gweep: /gweep/ [WPI] 1. v. To {hack}, usually at night. At WPI, from 1975
onwards, one who gweeped could often be found at the College Computing Center
punching cards or crashing the {PDP-10} or, later, the DEC-20. A
correspondent who was there at the time opines that the term was originally
onomatopoetic, describing the keyclick sound of the Datapoint terminals long
connected to the PDP-10; others allege that `gweep' was the sound of the
Datapoint's bell (compare {feep}). The term has survived the demise of those
technologies, however, and was still alive in early 1999. "I'm going to go
gweep for a while. see you in the morning." "I gweep from 8 PM till 3 AM
during the week." 2. n. One who habitually gweeps in sense 1; a {hacker}.
"He's a hard-core gweep, mumbles code in his sleep." Around 1979 this was
considered derogatory and not used in self-reference; it has since been
proudly claimed in much the same way as {geek}. H h ha ha only serious hack
hack attack hack mode hack on hack together hack up hack value hacked off
hacked up hacker hacker ethic hacker humor Hackers (the movie) hacking run
Hacking X for Y Hackintosh hackish hackishness hackitude hair hairball hairy
HAKMEM hakspek Halloween Documents ham hammer hamster HAND hand cruft
hand-hacking hand-roll handle handshaking handwave hang Hanlon's Razor
happily hard boot hardcoded hardwarily hardwired has the X nature hash bucket
hash collision hat HCF heads down heartbeat heatseeker heavy metal heavy
wizardry heavyweight Hed Rat heisenbug hell desk hello sailor! hello world
hello, wall! hex hexadecimal hexit HHOK HHOS hidden flag high bit high moby
highly hing hired gun hirsute HLL hoarding hog hole hollised holy penguin pee
holy wars home box home machine home page honey pot hook hop horked hose
hosed hot chat hot spot hotlink house wizard HP-SUX HTH huff hung hungry
puppy hungus hyperspace hysterical reasons