 :GWF: n. "Common abbreviation for Goober with Firewall". A {luser} who has
equipped his desktop computer with a hypersensitive "software firewall" or
host intrusion detection program, and who gives its alerts absolute credence.
ISP tech support and abuse desks dread hearing from such persons, who insist
that every packet of abnormal traffic the software detects is "a hacker"
(sic) and, occasionally, threatening lawsuits or prosecution. GWFs have been
known to assert that they are being attacked from 127.0.0.1, and that their
ISP is criminally negligent for failing to block these attacks. "GWF" is used
similarly to {id10t error} and {PEBKAC} to flag trouble tickets opened by
such users. H h ha ha only serious hack hack attack hack mode hack on hack
together hack up hack value hacked off hacked up hacker hacker ethic hacker
humor Hackers (the movie) hacking run Hacking X for Y Hackintosh hackish
hackishness hackitude hair hairball hairy HAKMEM hakspek Halloween Documents
ham hammer hamster HAND hand cruft hand-hacking hand-roll handle handshaking
handwave hang Hanlon's Razor happily hard boot hardcoded hardwarily hardwired
has the X nature hash bucket hash collision hat HCF heads down heartbeat
heatseeker heavy metal heavy wizardry heavyweight Hed Rat heisenbug hell desk
hello sailor! hello world hello, wall! hex hexadecimal hexit HHOK HHOS hidden
flag high bit high moby highly hing hired gun hirsute HLL hoarding hog hole
hollised holy penguin pee holy wars home box home machine home page honey pot
hook hop horked hose hosed hot chat hot spot hotlink house wizard HP-SUX HTH
huff hung hungry puppy hungus hyperspace hysterical reasons