 :hacker humor:: A distinctive style of shared intellectual humor found among
hackers, having the following marked characteristics: 1. Fascination with
form-vs.-content jokes, paradoxes, and humor having to do with confusion of
metalevels (see {meta}). One way to make a hacker laugh: hold a red index
card in front of him/her with "GREEN" written on it, or vice-versa (note,
however, that this is funny only the first time). 2. Elaborate deadpan
parodies of large intellectual constructs, such as specifications (see
{write-only memory}), standards documents, language descriptions (see
{INTERCAL}), and even entire scientific theories (see {quantum bogodynamics},
{computron}). 3. Jokes that involve screwily precise reasoning from bizarre,
ludicrous, or just grossly counter-intuitive premises. 4. Fascination with
puns and wordplay. 5. A fondness for apparently mindless humor with
subversive currents of intelligence in it -- for example, old Warner Brothers
and Rocky & Bullwinkle cartoons, the Marx brothers, the early B-52s, and
Monty Python's Flying Circus. Humor that combines this trait with elements of
high camp and slapstick is especially favored. 6. References to the
symbol-object antinomies and associated ideas in Zen Buddhism and (less
often) Taoism. see {has the X nature}, {Discordianism}, {zen}, {ha ha only
serious}, {AI koans}. see also {filk}, {retrocomputing}, and {A Portrait of
J. Random Hacker} in Appendix B. If you have an itchy feeling that all 6 of
these traits are really aspects of one thing that is incredibly difficult to
talk about exactly, you are (a) correct and (b) responding like a hacker.
These traits are also recognizable (though in a less marked form) throughout
{{science-fiction fandom}}.