 :hacker ethic: n. 1. The belief that information-sharing is a powerful
positive good, and that it is an ethical duty of hackers to share their
expertise by writing open-source code and facilitating access to information
and to computing resources wherever possible. 2. The belief that
system-cracking for fun and exploration is ethically OK as long as the
cracker commits no theft, vandalism, or breach of confidentiality. Both of
these normative ethical principles are widely, but by no means universally,
accepted among hackers. Most hackers subscribe to the hacker ethic in sense
1, and many act on it by writing and giving away open-source software. A few
go further and assert that all information should be free and any proprietary
control of it is bad; this is the philosophy behind the {GNU} project. Sense
2 is more controversial: some people consider the act of cracking itself to
be unethical, like breaking and entering. But the belief that `ethical'
cracking excludes destruction at least moderates the behavior of people who
see themselves as `benign' crackers (see also {samurai}, {gray hat}). On this
view, it may be one of the highest forms of hackerly courtesy to (a) break
into a system, and then (b) explain to the sysop, preferably by email from a
{superuser} account, exactly how it was done and how the hole can be plugged
-- acting as an unpaid (and unsolicited) {tiger team}. The most reliable
manifestation of either version of the hacker ethic is that almost all
hackers are actively willing to share technical tricks, software, and (where
possible) computing resources with other hackers. Huge cooperative networks
such as {Usenet}, {FidoNet} and the Internet itself can function without
central control because of this trait; they both rely on and reinforce a
sense of community that may be hackerdom's most valuable intangible asset.