 :hacker: n. [originally, someone who makes furniture with an axe] 1. A
person who enjoys exploring the details of programmable systems and how to
stretch their capabilities, as opposed to most users, who prefer to learn
only the minimum necessary. 2. One who programs enthusiastically (even
obsessively) or who enjoys programming rather than just theorizing about
programming. 3. A person capable of appreciating {hack value}. 4. A person
who is good at programming quickly. 5. An expert at a particular program, or
one who frequently does work using it or on it; as in `a UNIX hacker'.
(Definitions 1 through 5 are correlated, and people who fit them congregate.)
6. An expert or enthusiast of any kind. One might be an astronomy hacker, for
example. 7. One who enjoys the intellectual challenge of creatively
overcoming or circumventing limitations. 8. [deprecated] A malicious meddler
who tries to discover sensitive information by poking around. Hence `password
hacker', `network hacker'. The correct term is {cracker}. The term `hacker'
also tends to connote membership in the global community defined by the net
(see {network, the} and {Internet address}). It also implies that the person
described is seen to subscribe to some version of the hacker ethic (see
{hacker ethic, the}). It is better to be described as a hacker by others than
to describe oneself that way. Hackers consider themselves something of an
elite (a meritocracy based on ability), though one to which new members are
gladly welcome. There is thus a certain ego satisfaction to be had in
identifying yourself as a hacker (but if you claim to be one and are not,
you'll quickly be labeled {bogus}). see also {wannabee}.