 0000000000; in another, there are nine. The editing program TECO finds five.
Thus it finds only the first ANA in BANANA, and is thus obligated to type N
next. By Murphy's Law, there is but one NAN, thus forcing A, and thus a loop.
An option to find overlapped instances would be useful, although it would
require backing up N - 1 characters before seeking the next N-character
string. Note: This last item refers to a {Dissociated Press} implementation.
see also {banana problem}. HAKMEM also contains some rather more complicated
mathematical and technical items, but these examples show some of its fun
flavor. An HTML transcription of the entire document is available at
`http://www.inwap.com/pdp10/hbaker/hakmem/hakmem.html'. :hakspek: /hak'speek/
n. A shorthand method of spelling found on many British academic bulletin
boards and {talker system}s. Syllables and whole words in a sentence are
replaced by single ASCII characters the names of which are phonetically
similar or equivalent, while multiple letters are usually dropped. Hence,
`for' becomes `4'; `two', `too', and `to' become `2'; `ck' becomes `k'.
"Before I see you tomorrow" becomes "b4 i c u 2moro". First appeared in
London about 1986, and was probably caused by the slowness of available
talker systems, which operated on archaic machines with outdated operating
systems and no standard methods of communication. Has become rarer since. see
also {talk mode}. :Halloween Documents: n. A pair of Microsoft internal
strategy memoranda leaked to ESR in late 1998 that confirmed everybody's
paranoia about the current {Evil Empire}. These documents
(http://www.opensource.org/halloween/) praised the technical excellence of
{Linux} and outlined a counterstrategy of attempting to lock in customers by
"de-commoditizing" Internet protocols and services. They were extensively
cited on the Internet and in the press and proved so embarrassing that
Microsoft PR barely said a word in public for six months afterwards. :hammer:
vt. Commonwealth hackish syn. for {bang on}. :hamster: n. 1. [Fairchild] A
particularly slick little piece of code that does one thing well; a small,
self-contained hack. The image is of a hamster {happily} spinning its
exercise wheel. 2. A tailless mouse; that is, one with an infrared link to a
receiver on the machine, as opposed to the conventional cable. 3. [UK] Any
item of hardware made by Amstrad, a company famous for its cheap plastic
PC-almost-compatibles. :HAND: // [Usenet: very common] Abbreviation: Have A
Nice Day. Typically used to close a {Usenet} posting, but also used to
informally close emails; often preceded by {HTH}. :hand cruft: vt. [pun on
`hand craft'] see {cruft}, sense 3. :hand-hacking: n. 1. [rare] The practice
of translating {hot spot}s from an {HLL} into hand-tuned assembler, as
opposed to trying to coerce the compiler into generating better code. Both
the term and the practice are becoming uncommon. see {tune}, {bum}, {by
hand}; syn. with v. {cruft}. 2. [common] More generally, manual construction
or patching of data sets that would normally be generated by a translation
utility and interpreted by another program, and aren't really designed to be
read or modified by humans. :hand-roll: v. [from obs. mainstream slang
`hand-rolled' in opposition to `ready-made', referring to cigarettes] To
perform a normally automated software installation or configuration process
{by hand}; implies that the normal process failed due to bugs in the
configurator or was defeated by something exceptional in the local
environment. "The worst thing about being a gateway between four different
nets is having to hand-roll a new sendmail configuration every time any of
them upgrades." :handle: n. 1. [from CB slang] An electronic pseudonym; a
`nom de guerre' intended to conceal the user's true identity. Network and BBS
handles function as the same sort of simultaneous concealment and display one
finds on Citizen's Band radio, from which the term was adopted. Use of
grandiose handles is characteristic of {warez d00dz}, {cracker}s, {weenie}s,
{spod}s, and other lower forms of network life; true hackers travel on their
own reputations rather than invented legendry. Compare {nick}, {screen name}.
2. A {magic cookie}, often in the form of a numeric index into some array
somewhere, through which you can manipulate an object like a file or window.
The form `file handle' is especially common. 3. [Mac] A pointer to a pointer
to dynamically-allocated memory; the extra level of indirection allows
on-the-fly memory compaction (to cut down on fragmentation) or aging out of
unused resources, with minimal impact on the (possibly multiple) parts of the
larger program containing references to the allocated memory. Compare {snap}
(to snap a handle would defeat its purpose); see also {aliasing bug},
{dangling pointer}. :handshaking: n. [very common] Hardware or software
activity designed to start or keep two machines or programs in
synchronization as they {do protocol}. Often applied to human activity; thus,
a hacker might watch two people in conversation nodding their heads to
indicate that they have heard each others' points and say "Oh, they're
handshaking!". see also {protocol}. :handwave: [poss. from gestures
characteristic of stage magicians] 1. v. To gloss over a complex point; to
distract a listener; to support a (possibly actually valid) point with
blatantly faulty logic.