 HCF: /aych-see-eff/ n. Mnemonic for `Halt and Catch Fire', any of several
undocumented and semi-mythical machine instructions with destructive
side-effects, supposedly included for test purposes on several well-known
architectures going as far back as the IBM 360. The MC6800 microprocessor was
the first for which the HCF opcode became widely known. This instruction
caused the processor to {toggle} a subset of the bus lines as rapidly as it
can; in some configurations this can actually cause lines to burn up. heads
down: [Sun] adj. Concentrating, usually so heavily and for so long that
everything outside the focus area is missed. see also {hack mode} and {larval
stage}, although it's not confined to fledgling hackers. heartbeat: n. 1. The
signal emitted by a Level 2 Ethernet transceiver at the end of every packet
to show that the collision-detection circuit is still connected. 2. A
periodic synchronization signal used by software or hardware, such as a bus
clock or a periodic interrupt. 3. The `natural' oscillation frequency of a
computer's clock crystal, before frequency division down to the machine's
clock rate. 4. A signal emitted at regular intervals by software to
demonstrate that it's still alive. Sometimes hardware is designed to reboot
the machine if it stops hearing a heartbeat. see also {breath-of-life
packet}. heavy metal: [Cambridge] n. Syn. {big iron}. heavy wizardry: n. Code
or designs which trade on a particularly intimate knowledge or experience of
a particular operating system or language or complex application interface.
Distinguished from {deep magic}, which trades more on arcane *theoretical*
knowledge. Writing device drivers is heavy wizardry; so is interfacing to {X}
(sense #2) without a toolkit. Esp. found in comments similar to "Heavy
wizardry begins here...". Compare {voodoo programming}. heavyweight: adj.
High-overhead; {baroque}; code-intensive; featureful, but costly. Esp. used
of communication protocols, language designs, and any sort of implementation
in which maximum generality and/or ease of implementation has been pushed at
the expense of mundane considerations like speed, memory utilization, and
start-up time. {EMACS} is a heavyweight editor; {X} is an `extremely'
heavyweight window system. This term isn't pejorative, but one man's
heavyweight is another's {elephantine} and a third's {monstrosity}. Oppose
`lightweight'. heisenbug: /hie'zen-buhg/ [from Heisenberg's Uncertainty
Principle in quantum physics] n. A bug that disappears or alters its behavior
when one attempts to probe or isolate it. Antonym of {Bohr bug}. In C, 9 out
of 10 heisenbugs result from either {fandango on core} phenomena (esp.
lossage related to corruption of the malloc {arena}) or errors that {smash
the stack}. Helen Keller mode: n. State of a hardware or software system that
is deaf, dumb, and blind, i.e. accepting no input and generating no output,
usually due to an infinite loop or some other excursion into {deep space}.
(Unfair to the real Helen Keller, whose success at learning speech was
triumphant.) see also {go flatline}, {catatonic}. hello, sailor!: interj.
Occasional West Coast equivalent of {hello, world}; seems to have originated
at SAIL, later associated with the game {Zork} (which also included "hello,
aviator" and "hello, implementor"). Originally from the traditional hooker's
greeting to a swabbie fresh off the boat, of course. hello, wall!: excl. see
{wall}. hello, world: interj. 1. The canonical minimal test message in the
C/UNIX universe. 2. Any of the minimal programs that emit this message. In
folklore, the first program a C coder is supposed to write in a new
environment is one that just prints "hello, world" to standard output (and
indeed it is the first example program in {K&R}). Environments that generate
an unreasonably large executable for this trivial test or which require a
{hairy} compiler-linker invocation to generate it are considered to {lose}
(see {X}). 2. Greeting uttered by a hacker making an entrance or requesting
information from anyone present. "Hello, world! Is the {VAX} back up yet?"
hex: n. 1. Short for {{hexadecimal}}, base 16. 2. A six-pack of anything
(compare {quad}, sense #2). Neither usage has anything to do with {magic} or
{black art}, though the pun is appreciated and occasionally used by hackers.
True story: as a joke, some hackers once offered some surplused ICs for sale
to be worn as protective amulets against hostile magic. The chips were, of
course, hex inverters. hexadecimal:: n. Base 16. Coined in the early 1960s to
replace earlier `sexadecimal', which was too racy and amusing for stuffy IBM,
and later adopted by the rest of the industry. Actually, neither term is
etymologically pure. If we take `binary' to be paradigmatic, the most
etymologically correct term for base 10, for examples, is `denary' (compare
`binary'), which comes from `deni' (ten at a time, ten each), a Latin
`distributive' number; the corresponding term for base-16 would be something
like `sendenary'. `Decimal' is from an ordinal number; the corresponding
prefix for six would imply something like `sextidecimal'. The `sexa-' prefix
is Latin but incorrect in this context and `hexa-' is Greek. The word `octal'
is similarly incorrect; correct forms would be `octaval' (to go with
decimal), or `octonary' (to go with binary). If anyone ever implements a
base-3 computer, computer scientists will be faced with the unprecedented
dilemma of a choice between two *correct* forms; both `ternary' and `trinary'
have a claim to this throne. hexit: /hek'sit/ n. A hexadecimal digit (0--9,
and A--F or a--f). Used by people who claim that there are only *ten* digits,
dammit; sixteen-fingered human beings are rather rare, regardless of what
some keyboard designs might seem to imply (see {space-cadet keyboard}).
hidden flag: [scientific computation] n. An extra option added to a routine
without changing the calling sequence. For example, instead of adding an
explicit input variable to instruct a routine to give extra diagnostic
output, the programmer might just add a test for some otherwise meaningless
feature of the existing inputs, such as a negative mass. Liberal use of
hidden flags can make a program very hard to debug and understand. high bit:
[from `high order bit'] n. 1. The most significant bit in a byte. 2. Also
meaning most significant part of something other than a data byte, e.g.
"Spare me the whole {saga}, just give me the high bit." see also {meta bit},
{dread high-bit disease}. high moby: /hie mohb'ee/ n. The high half of a
stock {PDP-10}'s address space; the other half was of course the low moby.
This usage has been generalized in a way that has outlasted the {PDP-10}; for
example, at the 1990 Washington D.C. Area Science Fiction Conclave (Disclave)
when a miscommunication resulted in two separate wakes being held in
commemoration of the shutdown of MIT's last {ITS} machines, the one on the
upper floor was dubbed the high moby and the other the low moby. All parties
involved {grok}ked this instantly. see {moby}. highly: [scientific
computation] adv. The preferred modifier for overstating an understatement.
As in: `highly nonoptimal', the worst possible way to do something; `highly
nontrivial', either impossible or requiring a major research project; `highly
nonlinear', completely erratic and unpredictable; `highly nontechnical',
drivel written for {luser}s, oversimplified to the point of being misleading
or incorrect (compare {drool-proof paper}). In other computing cultures,
postfixing of {in the extreme} might be preferred. hirsute: adj. Occasionally
used humorously as a synonym for {hairy}.