 R U THERE? are you there? SEC wait a second (sometimes written `SEC...') SYN
Are you busy? (expects ACK, SYN|ACK, or RST in return; this is modeled on the
TCP/IP handshake sequence) T yes (see the main entry for {T}) TNX thanks TNX
1.0E6 thanks a million (humorous) TNXE6 another form of "thanks a million"
WRT with regard to, or with respect to. WTF the universal interrogative
particle; WTF knows what it means? WTH what the hell? <double newline> When
the typing party has finished, he/she types two newlines to signal that
he/she is done; this leaves a blank line between `speeches' in the
conversation, making it easier to reread the preceding text. <name>: When
three or more terminals are linked, it is conventional for each typist to
{prepend} his/her login name or handle and a colon (or a hyphen) to each line
to indicate who is typing (some conferencing facilities do this
automatically). The login name is often shortened to a unique prefix
(possibly a single letter) during a very long conversation. /\/\/\ A giggle
or chuckle. On a MUD, this usually means `earthquake fault'. Most of the
above sub-jargon is used at both Stanford and MIT. Several of these
expressions are also common in {email}, esp. FYI, FYA, BTW, BCNU, WTF, and
CUL. A few other abbreviations have been reported from commercial networks,
such as GEnie and CompuServe, where on-line `live' chat including more than
two people is common and usually involves a more `social' context, notably
the following: <g> grin <gd&r> grinning, ducking, and running BBL be back
later BRB be right back HHOJ ha ha only joking HHOK ha ha only kidding