 2. A four-pack of anything (compare {hex}, sense 2). 3. The rectangle or box
glyph used in the APL language for various arcane purposes mostly related to
I/O. Former Ivy-Leaguers and Oxford types are said to associate it with
nostalgic memories of dear old University. :quadruple bucky: n. obs. 1. On an
MIT {space-cadet keyboard}, use of all four of the shifting keys (control,
meta, hyper, and super) while typing a character key. 2. On a Stanford or MIT
keyboard in {raw mode}, use of four shift keys while typing a fifth
character, where the four shift keys are the control and meta keys on _both_
sides of the keyboard. This was very difficult to do! One accepted technique
was to press the left-control and left-meta keys with your left hand, the
right-control and right-meta keys with your right hand, and the fifth key
with your nose. Quadruple-bucky combinations were very seldom used in
practice, because when one invented a new command one usually assigned it to
some character that was easier to type. If you want to imply that a program
has ridiculously many commands or features, you can say something like: "Oh,
the command that makes it spin the tapes while whistling Beethoven's Fifth
Symphony is quadruple-bucky-cokebottle." see {double bucky}, {bucky bits},
{cokebottle}. :quantifiers:: In techspeak and jargon, the standard metric
prefixes used in the SI (Syste`me International) conventions for scientific
measurement have dual uses. With units of time or things that come in powers
of 10, such as money, they retain their usual meanings of multiplication by
powers of 1000 = 10^3. But when used with bytes or other things that
naturally come in powers of 2, they usually denote multiplication by powers
of 1024 = 2^(10). Here are the SI magnifying prefixes, along with the
corresponding binary interpretations in common use: prefix decimal binary
kilo- 1000^1 1024^1 = 2^10 = 1,024 mega- 1000^2 1024^2 = 2^20 = 1,048,576
giga- 1000^3 1024^3 = 2^30 = 1,073,741,824 tera- 1000^4 1024^4 = 2^40 =
1,099,511,627,776 peta- 1000^5 1024^5 = 2^50 = 1,125,899,906,842,624 exa-
1000^6 1024^6 = 2^60 = 1,152,921,504,606,846,976 zetta- 1000^7 1024^7 = 2^70
= 1,180,591,620,717,411,303,424 yotta- 1000^8 1024^8 = 2^80 =
1,208,925,819,614,629,174,706,176 Here are the SI fractional prefixes:
_prefix decimal jargon usage_ milli- 1000^-1 (seldom used in jargon) micro-
1000^-2 small or human-scale (see {micro-}) nano- 1000^-3 even smaller (see
{nano-}) pico- 1000^-4 even smaller yet (see {pico-}) femto- 1000^-5 (not
used in jargon---yet) atto- 1000^-6 (not used in jargon---yet) zepto- 1000^-7
(not used in jargon---yet) yocto- 1000^-8 (not used in jargon---yet) The
prefixes zetta-, yotta-, zepto-, and yocto- have been included in these
tables purely for completeness and giggle value; they were adopted in 1990 by
the `19th Conference Generale des Poids et Mesures'. The binary peta- and
exa- loadings, though well established, are not in jargon use either -- yet.
The prefix milli-, denoting multiplication by 1/1000, has always been rare in
jargon (there is, however, a standard joke about the `millihelen' --
notionally, the amount of beauty required to launch one ship). see the
entries on {micro-}, {pico-}, and {nano-} for more information on connotative
jargon use of these terms. `Femto' and `atto' (which, interestingly, derive
not from Greek but from Danish) have not yet acquired jargon loadings, though
it is easy to predict what those will be once computing technology enters the
required realms of magnitude (however, see {attoparsec}). There are, of
course, some standard unit prefixes for powers of 10. In the following table,
the `prefix' column is the international standard suffix for the appropriate
power of ten; the `binary' column lists jargon abbreviations and words for
the corresponding power of 2. The B-suffixed forms are commonly used for byte
quantities; the words `meg' and `gig' are nouns that may (but do not always)
pluralize with `s'. prefix decimal binary pronunciation kilo- k K, KB, /kay/
mega- M M, MB, meg /meg/ giga- G G, GB, gig /gig/,/jig/ Confusingly, hackers
often use K or M as though they were suffix or numeric multipliers rather
than a prefix; thus "2K dollars", "2M of disk space". This is also true
(though less commonly) of G. Note that the formal SI metric prefix for 1000
is `k'; some use this strictly, reserving `K' for multiplication by 1024 (KB
is thus `kilobytes'). K, M, and G used alone refer to quantities of bytes;
thus, 64G is 64 gigabytes and `a K' is a kilobyte (compare mainstream use of
`a G' as short for `a grand', that is, $1000). Whether one pronounces `gig'
with hard or soft `g' depends on what one thinks the proper pronunciation of
`giga-' is. Confusing 1000 and 1024 (or other powers of 2 and 10 close in
magnitude) -- for example, describing a memory in units of 500K or 524K
instead of 512K -- is a sure sign of the {marketroid}. One example of this:
it is common to refer to the capacity of 3.5" {microfloppies} as `1.44 MB' In
fact, this is a completely {bogus} number. The correct size is 1440 KB, that
is, 1440 * 1024 = 1474560 bytes. So the `mega' in `1.44 MB' is compounded of
two `kilos', one of which is 1024 and the other of which is 1000. The correct
number of megabytes would of course be 1440 / 1024 = 1.40625. Alas, this fine
point is probably lost on the world forever. [1993 update: hacker Morgan
Burke has proposed, to general approval on Usenet, the following additional
prefixes: groucho 10^(-30) harpo 10^(-27) harpi 10^(27) grouchi 10^(30) We
observe that this would leave the prefixes zeppo-, gummo-, and chico-
available for future expansion. Sadly, there is little immediate prospect
that Mr. Burke's eminently sensible proposal will be ratified.] [1999 upate:
there is an IEC proposal
(ftp://ftp.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/pub/doc/ISO/information-units) for
binary multipliers, but no evidence that any of its proposals are in live
use.] :quantum bogodynamics: /kwon'tm boh`goh-di:-nam'iks/ n. A theory that
characterizes the universe in terms of bogon sources (such as politicians,
used-car salesmen, TV evangelists, and {suit}s in general), bogon sinks (such
as taxpayers and computers), and bogosity potential fields. Bogon absorption,
of course, causes human beings to behave mindlessly and machines to fail (and
may also cause both to emit secondary bogons); however, the precise mechanics
of the bogon-computron interaction are not yet understood and remain to be
elucidated. Quantum bogodynamics is most often invoked to explain the sharp
increase in hardware and software failures in the presence of suits; the
latter emit bogons, which the former absorb. see {bogon}, {computron},
{suit}, {psyton}. :quarter: n. Two bits. This in turn comes from the `pieces
of eight' famed in pirate movies -- Spanish silver crowns that could be
broken into eight pie-slice-shaped `bits' to make change. Early in American
history the Spanish coin was considered equal to a dollar, so each of these
`bits' was considered worth 12.5 cents. Syn. {tayste}, {crumb}, {quad}.
Usage: rare. General discussion of such terms is under {nybble}. :ques:
/kwes/ 1. n. The question mark character (`?', ASCII 0111111). 2. interj.
What? Also frequently verb-doubled as "Ques ques?" see {wall}.
:quick-and-dirty: adj. Describes a {crock} put together under time or user
pressure. Used esp. when you want to convey that you think the fast way might
lead to trouble further down the road. "I can have a quick-and-dirty fix in
place tonight, but I'll have to rewrite the whole module to solve the
underlying design problem." see also {kluge}. :quine: /kwi:n/ n. [from the
name of the logician Willard van Orman Quine, via Douglas Hofstadter] A
program that generates a copy of its own source text as its complete output.
Devising the shortest possible quine in some given programming language is a
common hackish amusement. Here is one classic quine: ((lambda (x) (list x
(list (quote quote) x))) (quote (lambda (x) (list x (list (quote quote)
x))))) This one works in LISP or Scheme. It's relatively easy to write quines
in other languages such as Postscript which readily handle programs as data;
much harder (and thus more challenging!) in languages like C which do not.
Here is a classic C quine for ASCII machines: char*f="char*f=%c%s%c;main()
{printf(f,34,f,34,10);}%c"; main(){printf(f,34,f,34,10);} For excruciatingly
exact quinishness, remove the interior line breaks. Some infamous {Obfuscated
C Contest} entries have been quines that reproduced in exotic ways. :quote
chapter and verse: v. [by analogy with the mainstream phrase] To cite a
relevant excerpt from an appropriate {bible}. "I don't care if `rn' gets it
wrong; `Followup-To: poster' is explicitly permitted by {RFC}-1036. I'll
quote chapter and verse if you don't believe me." see also {legalese},
{language lawyer}, {RTFS} (sense 2). :quotient: n. see {coefficient of X}.
:quux: /kwuhks/ n. [Mythically, from the Latin semi-deponent verb quuxo,
quuxare, quuxandum iri; noun form variously `quux' (plural `quuces',
anglicized to `quuxes') and `quuxu' (genitive plural is `quuxuum', for four
u-letters out of seven in all, using up all the `u' letters in Scrabble).] 1.
Originally, a {metasyntactic variable} like {foo} and {foobar}. Invented by
Guy Steele for precisely this purpose when he was young and naive and not yet
interacting with the real computing community. Many people invent such words;
this one seems simply to have been lucky enough to have spread a little. In
an eloquent display of poetic justice, it has returned to the originator in
the form of a nickname. 2. interj. see {foo}; however, denotes very little
disgust, and is uttered mostly for the sake of the sound of it. 3. Guy Steele
in his persona as `The Great Quux', which is somewhat infamous for light
verse and for the `Crunchly' cartoons. 4. In some circles, used as a punning
opposite of `crux'. "Ah, that's the quux of the matter!" implies that the
point is _not_ crucial (compare {tip of the ice-cube}). 5. quuxy: adj. Of or
pertaining to a quux. :qux: /kwuhks/ The fourth of the standard
{metasyntactic variable}, after {baz} and before the quu(u...)x series. see
{foo}, {bar}, {baz}, {quux}. This appears to be a recent mutation from
{quux}, and many versions (especially older versions) of the standard series
just run {foo}, {bar}, {baz}, {quux}, .... :QWERTY: /kwer'tee/ adj. [from the
keycaps at the upper left] Pertaining to a standard English-language
typewriter keyboard (sometimes called the Sholes keyboard after its
inventor), as opposed to Dvorak or foreign-language layouts or a {space-cadet
keyboard} or APL keyboard. Historical note: The QWERTY layout is a fine
example of a {fossil}. It is sometimes said that it was designed to slow down
the typist, but this is wrong; it was designed to allow _faster_ typing --
under a constraint now long obsolete. In early typewriters, fast typing using
nearby type-bars jammed the mechanism. So Sholes fiddled the layout to
separate the letters of many common digraphs (he did a far from perfect job,
though; `th', `tr', `ed', and `er', for example, each use two nearby keys).
Also, putting the letters of `typewriter' on one line allowed it to be typed
with particular speed and accuracy for {demo}s. The jamming problem was
essentially solved soon afterward by a suitable use of springs, but the
keyboard layout lives on. The QWERTY keyboard has also spawned some unhelpful
economic myths about how technical standards get and stay established; see
`http://www.reasonmag.com/9606/Fe.QWERTY.html'. = R = ===== :rabbit job: n.
[Cambridge] A batch job that does little, if any, real work, but creates one
or more copies of itself, breeding like rabbits. Compare {wabbit}, {fork
bomb}. :rain dance: n. 1. Any ceremonial action taken to correct a hardware
problem, with the expectation that nothing will be accomplished. This
especially applies to reseating printed circuit boards, reconnecting cables,
etc. "I can't boot up the machine. We'll have to wait for Greg to do his rain
dance." 2. Any arcane sequence of actions performed with computers or
software in order to achieve some goal; the term is usually restricted to
rituals that include both an {incantation} or two and physical activity or
motion. Compare {magic}, {voodoo programming}, {black art}, {cargo cult
programming}, {wave a dead chicken}; see also {casting the runes}. :rainbow
series: n. Any of several series of technical manuals distinguished by cover
color. The original rainbow series was the NCSC security manuals (see {Orange
Book}, {crayola books}); the term has also been commonly applied to the
PostScript reference set (see {Red Book}, {Green Book}, {Blue Book}, {White
Book}). Which books are meant by "`the' rainbow series" unqualified is thus
dependent on one's local technical culture. :random: adj. 1. Unpredictable
(closest to mathematical definition); weird. "The system's been behaving
pretty randomly." 2. Assorted; undistinguished. "Who was at the conference?"
"Just a bunch of random business types." 3. (pejorative) Frivolous;
unproductive; undirected. "He's just a random loser." 4. Incoherent or
inelegant; poorly chosen; not well organized. "The program has a random set
of misfeatures." "That's a random name for that function." "Well, all the
names were chosen pretty randomly." 5. In no particular order, though
deterministic. "The I/O channels are in a pool, and when a file is opened one
is chosen randomly." 6. Arbitrary. "It generates a random name for the
scratch file." 7. Gratuitously wrong, i.e., poorly done and for no good
apparent reason. For example, a program that handles file name defaulting in
a particularly useless way, or an assembler routine that could easily have
been coded using only three registers, but redundantly uses seven for values
with non-overlapping lifetimes, so that no one else can invoke it without
first saving four extra registers. What {randomness}! 8. n. A random hacker;
used particularly of high-school students who soak up computer time and
generally get in the way. 9. n. Anyone who is not a hacker (or, sometimes,
anyone not known to the hacker speaking); the noun form of sense 2. "I went
to the talk, but the audience was full of randoms asking bogus questions".
10. n. (occasional MIT usage) One who lives at Random Hall. see also {J.
Random}, {some random X}. 11. [UK] Conversationally, a non sequitur or
something similarly out-of-the-blue. As in: "Stop being so random!" This
sense equates to `hatstand', taken from the Viz comic character "Roger
Irrelevant - He's completely Hatstand." :random numbers:: n. When one wishes
to specify a large but random number of things, and the context is
inappropriate for {N}, certain numbers are preferred by hacker tradition
(that is, easily recognized as placeholders). These include the following: 17
Long described at MIT as `the least random number'; see 23. 23 Sacred number
of Eris, Goddess of Discord (along with 17 and 5). 42 The Answer to the
Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything. (Note that this
answer is completely fortuitous. `:-)') 69 From the sexual act. This one was
favored in MIT's ITS culture. 105 69 hex = 105 decimal, and 69 decimal = 105
octal. Also, 105 is 69 in base 42. 666 The Number of the Beast. For further
enlightenment, study the "Principia Discordia", "{The Hitchhiker's Guide to
the Galaxy}", "The Joy of Sex", and the Christian Bible (Revelation 13:18).
see also {Discordianism} or consult your pineal gland. see also {for values
of}. :randomness: n. 1. An inexplicable misfeature; gratuitous inelegance. 2.
A {hack} or {crock} that depends on a complex combination of coincidences
(or, possibly, the combination upon which the crock depends for its
accidental failure to malfunction). "This hack can output characters 40-57 by
putting the character in the four-bit accumulator field of an XCT and then
extracting six bits -- the low 2 bits of the XCT opcode are the right thing."
"What randomness!" 3. Of people, synonymous with `flakiness'. The connotation
is that the person so described is behaving weirdly, incompetently, or
inappropriately for reasons which are (a) too tiresome to bother inquiring
into, (b) are probably as inscrutable as quantum phenomena anyway, and (c)
are likely to pass with time. "Maybe he has a real complaint, or maybe it's
just randomness. see if he calls back." Despite the negative connotations
jargon uses of this term have, it is worth noting that randomness can
actually be a valuable resource, very useful for applications in cryptography
and elsewhere. Computers are so thoroughly deterministic that they have a
hard time generating high-quality randomess, so hackers have sometimes felt
the need to built special-purpose contraptions for this purpose alone. One
well-known website offers random bits generated by radioactive decay
(http://www.fourmilab.ch/hotbits/). Another derives random bits from images
of Lava Lite lamps (http://lavarand.sgi.com/). (Hackers invariably find the
latter hilarious. If you have to ask why, you'll never get it.) :rape: vt. 1.
To {screw} someone or something, violently; in particular, to destroy a
program or information irrecoverably. Often used in describing file-system
damage. "So-and-so was running a program that did absolute disk I/O and ended
up raping the master directory." 2. To strip a piece of hardware for parts.
3. [CMU/Pitt] To mass-copy files from an anonymous ftp site. "Last night I
raped Simtel's dskutl directory." :rare mode: adj. [Unix] CBREAK mode
(character-by-character with interrupts enabled). Distinguished from {raw
mode} and {cooked mode}; the phrase "a sort of half-cooked (rare?) mode" is
used in the V7/BSD manuals to describe the mode. Usage: rare. :raster
blaster: n. [Cambridge] Specialized hardware for {bitblt} operations (a
{blitter}). Allegedly inspired by `Rasta Blasta', British slang for the sort
of portable stereo Americans call a `boom box' or `ghetto blaster'. :raster
burn: n. Eyestrain brought on by too many hours of looking at low-res, poorly
tuned, or glare-ridden monitors, esp. graphics monitors. see {terminal
illness}. :rasterbation: n. [portmanteau: raster + masturbation] The
gratuituous use of comuputer generated images and effects in movies and
graphic art which would have been better without them. Especially employed as
a term of abuse by Photoshop/GIMP users and graphic artists. :rat belt: n. A
cable tie, esp. the sawtoothed, self-locking plastic kind that you can remove
only by cutting (as opposed to a random twist of wire or a twist tie or one
of those humongous metal clip frobs). Small cable ties are `mouse belts'.
:rat dance: n. [From the {Dilbert} comic strip of November 14, 1995] A
{hacking run} that produces results which, while superficially coherent, have
little or nothing to do with its original objectives. There are strong
connotations that the coding process and the objectives themselves were
pretty {random}. (In the original comic strip, the Ratbert is invited to
dance on Dilbert's keyboard in order to produce bugs for him to fix, and
authors a Web browser instead.) Compare {Infinite-Monkey Theorem}. This term
seems to have become widely recognized quite rapidly after the original
strip, a fact which testifies to Dilbert's huge popularity among hackers. All
too many find the perverse incentives and Kafkaesque atmosphere of Dilbert's
mythical workplace reflective of their own experiences. :rave: vi. [WPI] 1.
To persist in discussing a specific subject. 2. To speak authoritatively on a
subject about which one knows very little. 3. To complain to a person who is
not in a position to correct the difficulty. 4. To purposely annoy another
person verbally. 5. To evangelize. see {flame}. 6. Also used to describe a
less negative form of blather, such as friendly bullshitting. `Rave' differs
slightly from {flame} in that `rave' implies that it is the persistence or
obliviousness of the person speaking that is annoying, while {flame} implies
somewhat more strongly that the tone or content is offensive as well. :rave
on!: imp. Sarcastic invitation to continue a {rave}, often by someone who
wishes the raver would get a clue but realizes this is unlikely. :ravs:
/ravz/, also `Chinese ravs' n. Jiao-zi (steamed or boiled) or Guo-tie
(pan-fried). A Chinese appetizer, known variously in the plural as dumplings,
pot stickers (the literal translation of guo-tie), and (around Boston)
`Peking Ravioli'. The term `rav' is short for `ravioli', and among hackers
always means the Chinese kind rather than the Italian kind. Both consist of a
filling in a pasta shell, but the Chinese kind includes no cheese, uses a
thinner pasta, has a pork-vegetable filling (good ones include Chinese
chives), and is cooked differently, either by steaming or frying. A rav or
dumpling can be cooked any way, but a potsticker is always the fried kind (so
called because it sticks to the frying pot and has to be scraped off). "Let's
get hot-and-sour soup and three orders of ravs." see also {{oriental food}}.
:raw mode: n. A mode that allows a program to transfer bits directly to or
from an I/O device (or, under {bogus} systems that make a distinction, a disk
file) without any processing, abstraction, or interpretation by the operating
system. Compare {rare mode}, {cooked mode}. This is techspeak under Unix,
jargon elsewhere. :RBL: /R-B-L/ Abbreviation: "Realtime Blackhole List". A
service that allows people to blacklist sites for emitting {spam}, and makes
the blacklist available in real time to electronic-mail transport programs
that know how to use RBL so they can filter out mail from those sites.
Drastic but effective. There is an RBL home page
(http://maps.vix.com/rbl/usage.html). :rc file: /R-C fi:l/ n. [Unix: from
`runcom files' on the {CTSS} system ca.1955, via the startup script
`/etc/rc'] Script file containing startup instructions for an application
program (or an entire operating system), usually a text file containing
commands of the sort that might have been invoked manually once the system
was running but are to be executed automatically each time the system starts
up. see also {dot file}, {profile} (sense 1). :RE: /R-E/ n. Common spoken and
written shorthand for {regexp}. :read-only user: n. Describes a {luser} who
uses computers almost exclusively for reading Usenet, bulletin boards, and/or
email, rather than writing code or purveying useful information. see {twink},
{terminal junkie}, {lurker}. :README file: n. Hacker's-eye introduction
traditionally included in the top-level directory of a Unix source
distribution, containing a pointer to more detailed documentation, credits,
miscellaneous revision history, notes, etc. (The file may be named README, or
READ.ME, or rarely ReadMe or readme.txt or some other variant.) In the Mac
and PC worlds, software is not usually distributed in source form, and the
README is more likely to contain user-oriented material like last-minute
documentation changes, error workarounds, and restrictions. When asked,
hackers invariably relate the README convention to the famous scene in Lewis
Carroll's "Alice's Adventures In Wonderland" in which Alice confronts magic
munchies labeled "Eat Me" and "Drink Me". :real: adj. Not simulated. Often
used as a specific antonym to {virtual} in any of its jargon senses. :real
estate: n. May be used for any critical resource measured in units of area.
Most frequently used of `chip real estate', the area available for logic on
the surface of an integrated circuit (see also {nanoacre}). May also be used
of floor space in a {dinosaur pen}, or even space on a crowded desktop
(whether physical or electronic). :real hack: n. A {crock}. This is sometimes
used affectionately; see {hack}. :real operating system: n. The sort the
speaker is used to. People from the BSDophilic academic community are likely
to issue comments like "System V? Why don't you use a _real_ operating
system?", people from the commercial/industrial Unix sector are known to
complain "BSD? Why don't you use a _real_ operating system?", and people from
IBM object "Unix? Why don't you use a _real_ operating system?" Only {MS-DOS}
is universally considered unreal. see {holy wars}, {religious issues},
{proprietary}, {Get a real computer!} :Real Programmer: n. [indirectly, from
the book "Real Men Don't Eat Quiche"] A particular sub-variety of hacker: one
possessed of a flippant attitude toward complexity that is arrogant even when
justified by experience. The archetypal `Real Programmer' likes to program on
the {bare metal} and is very good at same, remembers the binary opcodes for
every machine he has ever programmed, thinks that HLLs are sissy, and uses a
debugger to edit his code because full-screen editors are for wimps. Real
Programmers aren't satisfied with code that hasn't been {bum}med into a state
of {tense}ness just short of rupture. Real Programmers never use comments or
write documentation: "If it was hard to write", says the Real Programmer, "it
should be hard to understand." Real Programmers can make machines do things
that were never in their spec sheets; in fact, they are seldom really happy
unless doing so. A Real Programmer's code can awe with its fiendish
brilliance, even as its crockishness appalls. Real Programmers live on junk
food and coffee, hang line-printer art on their walls, and terrify the crap
out of other programmers -- because someday, somebody else might have to try
to understand their code in order to change it. Their successors generally
consider it a {Good Thing} that there aren't many Real Programmers around any
more. For a famous (and somewhat more positive) portrait of a Real
Programmer, see "{The Story of Mel}" in Appendix A. The term itself was
popularized by a 1983 Datamation article "Real Programmers Don't Use Pascal"
by Ed Post, still circulating on Usenet and Internet in on-line form. You can
browse "Real Programmers Don't Use Pascal" from the Datamation home page
`http://www.datamation.com'. :Real Soon Now: adv. [orig. from SF's fanzine
community, popularized by Jerry Pournelle's column in "BYTE"] 1. Supposed to
be available (or fixed, or cheap, or whatever) real soon now according to
somebody, but the speaker is quite skeptical. 2. When one's gods, fates, or
other time commitments permit one to get to it (in other words, don't hold
your breath). Often abbreviated RSN. Compare {copious free time}. :real time:
1. [techspeak] adj. Describes an application which requires a program to
respond to stimuli within some small upper limit of response time (typically
milli- or microseconds). Process control at a chemical plant is the classic
example. Such applications often require special operating systems (because
everything else must take a back seat to response time) and speed-tuned
hardware. 2. adv. In jargon, refers to doing something while people are
watching or waiting. "I asked her how to find the calling procedure's program
counter on the stack and she came up with an algorithm in real time." :real
user: n. 1. A commercial user. One who is paying _real_ money for his
computer usage. 2. A non-hacker. Someone using the system for an explicit
purpose (a research project, a course, etc.) other than pure exploration. see
{user}. Hackers who are also students may also be real users. "I need this
fixed so I can do a problem set. I'm not complaining out of randomness, but
as a real user." see also {luser}. :Real World: n. 1. Those institutions at
which `programming' may be used in the same sentence as `FORTRAN', `{COBOL}',
`RPG', `{IBM}', `DBASE', etc. Places where programs do such commercially
necessary but intellectually uninspiring things as generating payroll checks
and invoices. 2. The location of non-programmers and activities not related
to programming. 3. A bizarre dimension in which the standard dress is shirt
and tie and in which a person's working hours are defined as 9 to 5 (see
{code grinder}). 4. Anywhere outside a university. "Poor fellow, he's left
MIT and gone into the Real World." Used pejoratively by those not in
residence there. In conversation, talking of someone who has entered the Real
World is not unlike speaking of a deceased person. It is also noteworthy that
on the campus of Cambridge University in England, there is a gaily-painted
lamp-post which bears the label `REALITY