 HP-SUX: /H-P suhks/ n. Unflattering hackerism for HP-UX, Hewlett-Packard's
UNIX port. Features some truly unique bogosities in the filesystem internals
and elsewhere which occasionally create portability problems. HP-UX is often
referred to as `hockey-pux' inside HP, and one respondent claims that the
proper pronunciation is /H-P ukkkhhhh/ as though one were about to spit.
Another such alternate spelling and pronunciation is "H-PUX" /H-puhks/.
Hackers at HP/Apollo (the former Apollo Computers which was swallowed by HP
in 1989) have been heard to complain that Mr. Packard should have pushed to
have his name first, if for no other reason than the greater eloquence of the
resulting acronym. Compare {buglix}. see also {Telerat}, {sun-stools},
{terminak}. huff: v. To compress data using a Huffman code. Various programs
that use such methods have been called `HUFF' or some variant thereof. Oppose
{puff}. Compare {crunch}, {compress}. humma: // excl. A filler word used on
various `chat' and `talk' programs when you had nothing to say but felt that
it was important to say something. The word apparently originated (at least
with this definition) on the MECC Timeshare System (MTS, a now-defunct
educational time-sharing system running in Minnesota during the 1970s and the
early 1980s) but was later sighted on early UNIX systems. Humor, Hacker:: n.
A distinctive style of shared intellectual humor found among hackers, having
the following distinctive characteristics: 1. Fascination with
form-vs.-content jokes, paradoxes, and humor having to do with confusion of
metalevels (see {meta}). One way to make a hacker laugh: hold a red index
card in front of him/her with "GREEN" written on it, or vice-versa (note,
however, that this is funny only the first time). 2. Elaborate deadpan
parodies of large intellectual constructs, such as specifications (see
{write-only memory}), standards documents, language descriptions (see
{INTERCAL}), and even entire scientific theories (see {quantum bogodynamics},
{computron}). 3. Jokes that involve screwily precise reasoning from bizarre,
ludicrous, or just grossly counter-intuitive premises. 4. Fascination with
puns and wordplay. 5. A fondness for apparently mindless humor with
subversive currents of intelligence in it --- for example, old Warner
Brothers and Rocky & Bullwinkle cartoons, the Marx brothers, the early B-52s,
and Monty Python's Flying Circus. Humor that combines this trait with
elements of high camp and slapstick is especially favored. 6. References to
the symbol-object antinomies and associated ideas in Zen Buddhism and (less
often) Taoism. see {has the X nature}, {Discordianism}, {zen}, {ha ha only
serious}, {AI koans}. see also {filk}, {retrocomputing}, and appendix B. If
you have an itchy feeling that all 6 of these traits are really aspects of
one thing that is incredibly difficult to talk about exactly, you are (a)
correct and (b) responding like a hacker. These traits are also recognizable
(though in a less marked form) throughout {{science-fiction fandom}}. hung:
[from `hung up'] adj. Equivalent to {wedged}, but more common at UNIX/C
sites. Not generally used of people. Syn. with {locked up}, {wedged}; compare
{hosed}. see also {hang}. A hung state is distinguished from {crash}ed or
{down}, where the program or system is also unusable but because it is not
running rather than because it is waiting for something. However, the
recovery from both situations is often the same. hungry puppy: n. Syn.
{slopsucker}. hungus: /huhng'g*s/ [perhaps related to slang `humongous'] adj.
Large, unwieldy, usually unmanageable. "TCP is a hungus piece of code." "This
is a hungus set of modifications." hyperspace: /hi:'per-spays/ n. A memory
location that is *far* away from where the program counter should be
pointing, often inaccessible because it is not even mapped in. "Another core
dump --- looks like the program jumped off to hyperspace somehow." (Compare
{jump off into never-never land}.) This usage is from the SF notion of a
spaceship jumping `into hyperspace', that is, taking a shortcut through
higher-dimensional space --- in other words, bypassing this universe. The
variant `east hyperspace' is recorded among CMU and Bliss hackers. = I =
=====