 JEDGAR (pronounced as two syllables: /jed'gr/), in honor of the former head
of the FBI. But there's more. The rest of the story is that JEDGAR would ask
the user for "license to kill". If the user said yes, then JEDGAR would
actually gun the job of the luser who was spying. However, people found this
made life too violent, especially when tourists learned about it. One of the
systems hackers solved the problem by replacing JEDGAR with another program
that only pretended to do its job. It took a long time to do this, because
every copy of JEDGAR had to be patched, and to this day no one knows how many
people never figured out that JEDGAR had been defanged. Appendix B: A
Portrait of J. Random Hacker ****************************************** This
profile reflects detailed comments on an earlier `trial balloon' version from
about a hundred USENET respondents. Where comparatives are used, the implicit
`other' is a randomly selected group from the non-hacker population of the
same size as hackerdom. General appearance: ------------------- Intelligent.
Scruffy. Intense. Abstracted. Interestingly for a sedentary profession, more
hackers run to skinny than fat; both extremes are more common than elswhere.
Tans are rare. Dress: ------ Casual, vaguely post-hippy; T-shirts, jeans,
running shoes, Birkenstocks (or bare feet). Long hair, beards and moustaches
are common. High incidence of tie-die and intellectual or humorous `slogan'
T-shirts (only rarely computer related, that's too obvious). A substantial
minority runs to `outdoorsy' clothing --- hiking boots ("in case a mountain
should suddenly spring up in the machine room", as one famous parody put it),
khakis, lumberjack or chammy shirts and the like. Very few actually fit the
National-Lampoon-Nerd stereotype, though it lingers on at MIT and may have
been more common before 1975. These days, backpacks are more common than
briefcases, and the hacker `look' is more whole-earth than whole-polyester.
Hackers dress for comfort, function, and minimal maintenance hassles rather
than for appearance (some, unfortunately, take this to extremes and neglect
personal hygiene). They have a very low tolerance of suits or other
`business' attire, in fact it is not uncommon for hackers to quit a job
rather than conform to dress codes. Female hackers never wear visible makeup
and many use none at all. Reading habits: --------------- Omnivorous, but
usually includes lots of science and science fiction. The typical hacker
household might subscribe to "Analog", "Scientific American",
"Co-Evolution_Quarterly" and "Smithsonian". Hackers often have a reading
range that astonishes `liberal arts' people but tend not to talk about it as
much. Many hackers spend as much of their spare time reading as the average
American burns up watching TV, and often keep shelves and shelves of
well-thumbed books in their homes. Other interests: ---------------- Some
hobbies are widely shared and recognized as going with the culture,
including: science fiction. Music (see the MUSIC entry). Medievalism. Chess,
go, wargames and intellectual games of all kinds. Role-playing games such as
Dungeons and Dragons used to be extremely popular among hackers but have lost
a bit of their former luster as they moved into the mainstream and became
heavily commercialized. Logic puzzles. Ham radio. Other interests that seem
to correlate less strongly but positively with hackerdom include: linguistics
and theater teching. Physical Activity and Sports:
----------------------------- Many (perhaps even most) hackers don't do
sports at all and are determinedly anti-physical. Among those that do, they
are almost always self-competitive ones involving concentration, stamina and
micromotor skills; martial arts, bicycling, kite-flying, hiking,
rock-climbing, sailing, caving, juggling. Hackers avoid most team sports like
the plague (volleyball is a notable and unexplained exception). Education:
---------- Nearly all hackers past their teens are either college-degreed or
self-educated to an equivalent level. The self-taught hacker is often
considered (at least by other hackers) to be better-motivated and more
respected than his B.Sc. counterpart. Academic areas from which people often
gravitate into hackerdom include (besides the obvious computer science and
electrical engineering) physics, mathematics, electrical engineering,
linguistics, and philosophy. Things hackers detest and avoid:
-------------------------------- IBM mainframes. Smurfs and other forms of
offensive cuteness. Bureaucracies. Stupid people. Easy listening music.
Television (except for cartoons, movies, the old _Star_Trek_ and the new
_Simpsons_). Business suits. Dishonesty. Incompetence. Boredom.