 IMHO: [from SF fandom via USENET; written acronym for In My Humble Opinion]
Example: "IMHO, mixed-case C names should be avoided, as mistyping something
in the wrong case can cause hard-to-detect errors --- and they look too
Pascalish anyhow." Also seen in variant forms such as IMNSHO (In My
Not-So-Humble Opinion) and IMAO (In My Arrogant Opinion). in the extreme:
adj. A preferred superlative suffix for many hackish terms. see, for example,
`obscure in the extreme' under {obscure}, and compare {highly}. incantation:
n. Any particularly arbitrary or obscure command that must be muttered at a
system to attain a desired result. Not used of passwords or other explicit
security features. Especially used of tricks that are so poorly documented
they must be learned from a {wizard}. E.g. "This compiler normally locates
initialized data in the data segment, but if you {mutter} the right
incantation they will be forced into text space". include: vt. [USENET] 1. To
duplicate a portion (or whole) of another's message (typically with
attribution to the source) in a reply or followup, for clarifying the context
of one's response. see the section on inclusion styles in the front matter.
2. Derived from C: `#include <disclaimer.h>' has appeared in {sig block}s to
refer to a notional `standard disclaimer file'. include war: n. Excessive
multi-leveled including within a discussion {thread}, a practice which tends
to annoy readers. In a forum with high-traffic newsgroups, such as USENET,
this can lead to {flame}s and the urge to start a {kill file}. indent style:
[C programmers] n. The rules one uses to indent code in a readable fashion; a
subject of {holy wars}. There are four major C indent styles, as described
below; all have the aim of making it easier for the reader to visually track
the scope of control constructs. The significant variable is the placement of
`{' and `}' with respect to the statement(s) they enclose and the guard or
controlling statement (if, else, for while, or do) on the block, if any. `K&R
style' --- Named after Kernighan & Ritchie, because the examples in {K&R} are
formatted this way. Also called `kernel style' because the UNIX kernel is
written in it, and the `One True Brace Style', abbr. 1TBS, by its partisans.
The basic indent shown here is 8 spaces (or 1 tab) per level; 4 or 2 is
occasionally seen, but is much less common. if (cond) { <body> } `Allman
style' --- Named for Eric Allman, a Berkeley hacker who wrote a lot of the
BSD utilities in it (it is sometimes called `BSD style'). Resembles normal
indent style in Pascal and Algol. Basic indent per level shown here is 8
spaces, but 4 is just as common (esp. in C++ code). if (cond) { <body> }
`Whitesmiths style' --- popularized by the examples that came with
Whitesmiths C, an early commercial C compiler. Basic indent per level shown
here is 8 spaces, but 4 is occasionally seen. if (cond) { <body> } `GNU
style' --- Used throughout GNU EMACS and the Free Software Foundation code,
and just about nowhere else. Indents are always 4 spaces per level, with {
and } halfway between the outer and inner indent levels. if (cond) { <body> }
Statistically, surveys have shown the Allman and Whitesmiths styles to be the
most common, with about equal mind share. K&R/1TBS used to be nearly
universal, but is now much less common (the opening brace tends to get lost
against the right paren of the guard part in an `if' or `while', which is a
{Bad Thing}). Defenders of 1TBS argue that any putative gain in readability
is less important than their style's relative economy with vertical space,
which enables one to see more code on one's screen at once. Doubtless these
issues will continue to be the subjects of {holy wars}. infant mortality: n.
It is common lore among hackers that the chances of sudden hardware failure
drop off exponentially with a machine's time since power-up (that is, until
the relatively distant time at which mechanical wear in I/O devices and
thermal-cycling stress in components has accumulated enough for the machine
to start going senile). Up to half of all chip-and-wire failures happen
within a new system's first few weeks; such failures are often referred to as
`infant mortality' problems (or, occasionally, as `sudden infant death
syndrome'). see {bathtub curve}, {burn-in period}. infinite: adj. Consisting
of a large number of objects; extreme. Used very loosely as in: "This program
produces infinite garbage." "He is an infinite loser." The word most likely
to follow `infinite', though, is {hair} (it has been pointerd out that
fractals are an excellent example of infinite hair). These uses are abuses of
the word's mathematical meaning. The term "semi-infinite" denoting an
immoderately large amount of some resource is also heard. "This compiler is
taking a semi-infinite amount of time to optimize my program." see also
{semi}. infinity: n. 1. The largest value that can be represented in a
particular type of variable (register, memory location, data type, whatever).
2. `minus infinity': The smallest such value, not necessarily or even usually
the simple negation of plus infinity. In N-bit twos-complement arithmetic,
infinity is `2 ^ (N-1) - 1' but minus infinity is `- (2 ^ (N-1))', not `-(2 ^
(N-1) - 1)'. Note also that this is different from `time T equals minus
infinity', which is closer to a mathematician's usage of infinity. insanely
great: adj. [Mac community, from Steve Jobs; also BSD UNIX people via Bill
Joy] Something so incredibly {elegant} that it is imaginable only to someone
possessing the most puissant of {hacker}-natures.