 INTERCAL: /in't@r-kal/ [said by the authors to stand for `Compiler Language
With No Pronounceable Acronym'] n. A computer language designed by Don Woods
and James Lyon in 1972. INTERCAL is purposely different from all other
computer languages in all ways but one; it is purely a written language,
being totally unspeakable. An excerpt from the INTERCAL Reference Manual will
make the style of the language clear. In most languages, if you wanted the
variable A to have the value 65536, you would write something like LET A =
65536; The INTERCAL Reference Manual explains that "It is a well-known and
oft-demonstrated fact that a person whose work is incomprehensible is held in
high esteem. For example, if one were to state that the simplest way to store
a value of 65536 in a 32-bit INTERCAL variable is: DO :1 <- #0$#256 any
sensible programmer would say that that was absurd. Since this is indeed the
simplest method, the programmer would be made to look foolish in front of his
boss, who would of course have happened to turn up, as bosses are wont to do.
The effect would be no less devastating for the programmer having been
correct." INTERCAL has many other peculiar features designed to make it even
more unspeakable. The Woods/Lyons implementation was actually used by many
(well, at least several) people at Princeton. The language has been recently
re-implemented as C-INTERCAL and is consequently enjoying an unprecedented
level of unpopularity; there is even an alt.lang.intercal newsgroup devoted
to the study and ... appreciation of the language on USENET. interesting:
adj. In hacker parlance, this word is not simply synonymous with
`intriguing', but has strong connotations of `annoying', or `difficult', or
both. Hackers relish a challenge. Oppose {trivial}. Internet address:: n. An
absolute network address of the form foo@bar.baz, where foo is a user name,
bar is a {sitename}, and baz is a `domain' name, possibly including periods
itself. Contrasts with {bang path}; see also {network, the} and {network
address}. All Internet machines and most UUCP sites can now resolve these
addresses, thanks to a large amount of behind-the-scenes magic and PD
software written since 1980 or so. see also {bang path}, {domainist}. Reading
Internet addresses is something of an art. Here are the four most important
top-level functional Internet domains followed by a selection of geographical
domains: com Commercial organizations. edu Educational institutions. gov U.S.
government civilian sites. mil U.S. military sites. Note that most of the
sites in the com and edu domains are in the U.S. or Canada. us Sites in the
U.S. not within one of the functional domains. su Sites in the Soviet Union
(only one really active one so far!). uk Sites in the United Kingdom. Within
the `us' domain there are subdomains for the fifty states, generally with a
name identical to the state's postal abbreviation. Within the UK domain there
is an `ac' subdomain for academic sites and a `co' domain for commercial
ones. Other top-level domains can be divided up in similar ways. interrupt:
interj. 1. On a computer, an event which interrupts normal processing and
temporarily diverts flow-of-control through an "interrupt handler" routine.
see also {trap}. 2. A request for attention from a hacker. Often explicitly
spoken. "Interrupt --- have you seen Joe recently?". see {priority
interrupt}. interrupt list, the: [MSDOS] n. The list of all known software
interrupt calls (both documented and undocumented) for IBM PCs and
compatibles maintained and made available for free redistribution by Ralf
Brown (ralf@cs.cmu.edu). As of early 1991, it had grown to approximately 1
megabyte in length. interrupts locked out: adj. When someone is ignoring you.
In a restaurant, after several fruitless attempts to get the waitress's
attention, a hacker might well observe that "She must have interrupts locked
out." The synonym `interrupts disabled' is also common. Variations of this
abound; "to have one's interrupt mask bit set" is also heard. see also {spl}.
iron: n. Hardware, especially older/larger hardware of {mainframe} class with
big metal cabinets housing relatively low-density electronics (but also used
of modern supercomputers). Often in the phrase {big iron}. Oppose {silicon}.
see also {dinosaur}. Iron Age: n. In the history of computing, 1961-1971 ---
the formative era of commercial {mainframe} technology, when {big iron}
{dinosaurs} ruled the earth (the hackish metaphors for the era aren't exactly
paleontologically correct). These began with the delivery of the first PDP-1,
coincided with the dominance of ferrite {core}, and ended with the
introduction of the first commercial microprocessor (the Intel 4004) in 1971.
see also {Stone Age}. iron box: [UNIX/Internet] n. A special environment set
up to trap a {cracker} logging in over remote or network connections long
enough so he can be traced. May include a specially gimmicked {shell}
restricting the hacker's movements in unobvious ways, and `bait' files
designed to keep him interested and logged on. see also {back door},
{firewall machine}, {Venus flytrap}, and Clifford Stoll's account in
`Cuckoo's Egg' of how he made and used one (see Appendix C). ironmonger:
[IBM] n. A hardware specialist. Derogatory. Compare {sandbender}, {polygon
pusher}.