 1990, ISBN 0-201-57044-0). see also {Red Book}, {Green Book}, {Blue Book}.
:whizzy: adj. (alt. `wizzy') [Sun] Describes a {cuspy} program; one that is
feature-rich and well presented. :wibble: [UK] 1. n.,v. Commonly used to
describe chatter, content-free remarks or other essentially meaningless
contributions to threads in newsgroups. "Oh, rspence is wibbling again". 2.
[UK IRC] An explicit on-line no-op equivalent to {humma}. 3. One of the
preferred {metasyntactic variable}s in the UK, forming a series with
`wobble', `wubble', and `flob' (attributed to the hilarious historical comedy
"Blackadder"). 4. A pronounciation of the letters "www", as seen in URLs;
i.e., www.{foo}.com may be pronounced "wibble dot foo dot com". :WIBNI: // n.
[Bell Labs: Wouldn't It Be Nice If] What most requirements documents and
specifications consist entirely of. Compare {IWBNI}. :widget: n. 1. A
meta-thing. Used to stand for a real object in didactic examples (especially
database tutorials). Legend has it that the original widgets were holders for
buggy whips. "But suppose the parts list for a widget has 52 entries...." 2.
[poss. evoking `window gadget'] A user interface object in {X} graphical user
interfaces. :wiggles: n. [scientific computation] In solving partial
differential equations by finite difference and similar methods, wiggles are
sawtooth (up-down-up-down) oscillations at the shortest wavelength
representable on the grid. If an algorithm is unstable, this is often the
most unstable waveform, so it grows to dominate the solution. Alternatively,
stable (though inaccurate) wiggles can be generated near a discontinuity by a
Gibbs phenomenon. :WIMP environment: n. [acronym: `Window, Icon, Menu,
Pointing device (or Pull-down menu)'] A graphical-user-interface environment
such as {X} or the Macintosh interface, esp. as described by a hacker who
prefers command-line interfaces for their superior flexibility and
extensibility. However, it is also used without negative connotations; one
must pay attention to voice tone and other signals to interpret correctly.
see {menuitis}, {user-obsequious}. :win: [MIT] 1. vi. To succeed. A program
wins if no unexpected conditions arise, or (especially) if it sufficiently
{robust} to take exceptions in stride. 2. n. Success, or a specific instance
thereof. A pleasing outcome. "So it turned out I could use a {lexer}
generator instead of hand-coding my own pattern recognizer. What a win!"
Emphatic forms: `moby win', `super win', `hyper-win' (often used
interjectively as a reply). For some reason `suitable win' is also common at
MIT, usually in reference to a satisfactory solution to a problem. Oppose
{lose}; see also {big win}, which isn't quite just an intensification of
`win'. :win big: vi. To experience serendipity. "I went shopping and won big;
there was a 2-for-1 sale." see {big win}. :win win: excl. Expresses pleasure
at a {win}. :Winchester:: n. Informal generic term for sealed-enclosure
magnetic-disk drives in which the read-write head planes over the disk
surface on an air cushion. There is a legend that the name arose because the
original 1973 engineering prototype for what later became the IBM 3340
featured two 30-megabyte volumes; 30-30 became `Winchester' when somebody
noticed the similarity to the common term for a famous Winchester rifle (in
the latter, the first 30 referred to caliber and the second to the grain
weight of the charge). (It is sometimes incorrectly claimed that Winchester
was the laboratory in which the technology was developed.) :windoid: n. In
the Macintosh world, a style of window with much less adornment (smaller or
missing title bar, zoom box, etc, etc) than a standard window. :window
shopping: n. [US Geological Survey] Among users of {WIMP environment}s like
{X} or the Macintosh, extended experimentation with new window colors, fonts,
and icon shapes. This activity can take up hours of what might otherwise have
been productive working time. "I spent the afternoon window shopping until I
found the coolest shade of green for my active window borders -- now they
perfectly match my medium slate blue background." Serious window shoppers
will spend their days with bitmap editors, creating new and different icons
and background patterns for all to see. Also: `window dressing', the act of
applying new fonts, colors, etc. see {fritterware}, compare {macdink}.
:Windoze: /win'dohz/ n. see {Microsloth Windows}. :winged comments: n.
Comments set on the same line as code, as opposed to {boxed comments}. In C,
for example: d = sqrt(x*x + y*y); /* distance from origin */ Generally these
refer only to the action(s) taken on that line. :winkey: n. (alt. `winkey
face') see {emoticon}. :winnage: /win'*j/ n. The situation when a lossage is
corrected, or when something is winning. :winner: 1. n. An unexpectedly good
situation, program, programmer, or person. 2. `real winner': Often sarcastic,
but also used as high praise (see also the note under {user}). "He's a real
winner -- never reports a bug till he can duplicate it and send in an
example." :winnitude: /win'*-t[y]ood/ n. The quality of winning (as opposed
to {winnage}, which is the result of winning). "Guess what? They tweaked the
microcode and now the LISP interpreter runs twice as fast as it used to."
"That's really great! Boy, what winnitude!" "Yup. I'll probably get a
half-hour's winnage on the next run of my program." Perhaps curiously, the
obvious antonym `lossitude' is rare. :Wintel: n. Microsoft Windows plus Intel
- the tacit alliance that dominated desktop computing in the 1990s. Now
(1999) possibly on the verge of breaking up under pressure from {Linux}; see
{Lintel}. :wired: n. see {hardwired}. :wirehead: /wi:r'hed/ n. [prob. from SF
slang for an electrical-brain-stimulation addict] 1. A hardware hacker,
especially one who concentrates on communications hardware. 2. An expert in
local-area networks. A wirehead can be a network software wizard too, but
will always have the ability to deal with network hardware, down to the
smallest component. Wireheads are known for their ability to lash up an
Ethernet terminator from spare resistors, for example. :wirewater: n. Syn.
{programming fluid}. This melds the mainstream slang adjective `wired'
(stimulated, up, hyperactive) with `firewater'; however, it refers to
caffeinacious rather than alcoholic beverages. :wish list: n. A list of
desired features or bug fixes that probably won't get done for a long time,
usually because the person responsible for the code is too busy or can't
think of a clean way to do it. "OK, I'll add automatic filename completion to
the wish list for the new interface." Compare {tick-list features}. :within
delta of: adj. see {delta}. :within epsilon of: adj. see {epsilon}. :wizard:
n. 1. A person who knows how a complex piece of software or hardware works
(that is, who {grok}s it); esp. someone who can find and fix bugs quickly in
an emergency. Someone is a {hacker} if he or she has general hacking ability,
but is a wizard with respect to something only if he or she has specific
detailed knowledge of that thing. A good hacker could become a wizard for
something given the time to study it. 2. A person who is permitted to do
things forbidden to ordinary people; one who has {wheel} privileges on a
system. 3. A Unix expert, esp. a Unix systems programmer. This usage is well
enough established that `Unix Wizard' is a recognized job title at some
corporations and to most headhunters. see {guru}, {lord high fixer}. See also
{deep magic}, {heavy wizardry}, {incantation}, {magic}, {mutter}, {rain
dance}, {voodoo programming}, {wave a dead chicken}. :Wizard Book: n.
"Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs" (Hal Abelson, Jerry
Sussman and Julie Sussman; MIT Press,