 1. The use by guess or cookbook of an {obscure} or {hairy} system, feature,
or algorithm that one does not truly understand. The implication is that the
technique may not work, and if it doesn't, one will never know why. Almost
synonymous with {black magic}, except that black magic typically isn't
documented and _nobody_ understands it. Compare {magic}, {deep magic}, {heavy
wizardry}, {rain dance}, {cargo cult programming}, {wave a dead chicken}. 2.
Things programmers do that they know shouldn't work but they try anyway, and
which sometimes actually work, such as recompiling everything. :VR: // [MUD]
n. On-line abbrev for {virtual reality}, as opposed to {RL}. :Vulcan nerve
pinch: n. [from the old "Star Trek" TV series via Commodore Amiga hackers]
The keyboard combination that forces a soft-boot or jump to ROM monitor (on
machines that support such a feature). On many micros this is Ctrl-Alt-Del;
on Suns, L1-A; on some Macintoshes, it is <Cmd>-<Power switch>! Also called
{three-finger salute}. Compare {quadruple bucky}. :vulture capitalist: n.
Pejorative hackerism for `venture capitalist', deriving from the common
practice of pushing contracts that deprive inventors of control over their
own innovations and most of the money they ought to have made from them. = W
= ===== :wabbit: /wab'it/ n. [almost certainly from Elmer Fudd's immortal
line "You wascawwy wabbit!"] 1. A legendary early hack reported on a
System/360 at RPI and elsewhere around 1978; this may have descended (if only
by inspiration) from a hack called RABBITS reported from 1969 on a Burroughs
5500 at the University of Washington Computer Center. The program would make
two copies of itself every time it was run, eventually crashing the system.
2. By extension, any hack that includes infinite self-replication but is not
a {virus} or {worm}. see {fork bomb} and {rabbit job}, see also {cookie
monster}. :WAITS:: /wayts/ n. The mutant cousin of {{TOPS-10}} used on a
handful of systems at {{SAIL}} up to 1990. There was never an `official'
expansion of WAITS (the name itself having been arrived at by a rather
sideways process), but it was frequently glossed as `West-coast Alternative
to ITS'. Though WAITS was less visible than ITS, there was frequent exchange
of people and ideas between the two communities, and innovations pioneered at
WAITS exerted enormous indirect influence. The early screen modes of {EMACS},
for example, were directly inspired by WAITS's `E' editor -- one of a family
of editors that were the first to do `real-time editing', in which the
editing commands were invisible and where one typed text at the point of
insertion/overwriting. The modern style of multi-region windowing is said to
have originated there, and WAITS alumni at