 :Java: An object-oriented language originally developed at Sun by James
Gosling (and known by the name "Oak") with the intention of being the
successor to {C++} (the project was however originally sold to Sun as an
embedded language for use in set-top boxes). After the great Internet
explosion of 1993-1994, Java was hacked into a byte-interpreted language and
became the focus of a relentless hype campaign by Sun, which touted it as the
new language of choice for distributed applications. Java is indeed a
stronger and cleaner design than C++ and has been embraced by many in the
hacker community -- but it has been a considerable source of frustration to
many others, for reasons ranging from uneven support on different Web browser
platforms, performance issues, and some notorious deficiencies in some of the
standard toolkits (AWT in particular). {Microsoft}'s determined attempts to
corrupt the language (which it rightly sees as a threat to its OS monopoly)
have not helped. As of 2002, these issues are still in the process of being
resolved. Despite many attractive features and a good design, it is difficult
to find people willing to praise Java who have tried to implement a complex,
real-world system with it (but to be fair it is early days yet, and no other
language has ever been forced to spend its childhood under the limelight the
way Java has). On the other hand, Java has already been a big {win} in
academic circles, where it has taken the place of {Pascal} as the preferred
tool for teaching the basics of good programming to the next generation of
hackers.