 J. Random: /jay rand'm/ n. [generalized from {J. Random Hacker}] Arbitrary;
ordinary; any one; `any old'. "Would you let J. Random Loser marry your
daughter?". {J. Random} is often prefixed to a noun to make a name out of it.
It means roughly `some particular' or `any specific one'. The most common
uses are `J. Random Hacker, `J. Random Loser' and `J. Random Nerd' ("Should
J. Random Loser be allowed to {gun} down other people?"), but it can be used
just as an elaborate version of {random} in any sense. J. Random Hacker:
[MIT] /jay rand'm hak'r/ n. A mythical figure like the Unknown Soldier; the
archetypal hacker nerd. see {random}, {Suzie COBOL}. This may originally have
been inspired or influenced by `J. Fred Muggs', a show-biz chimpanzee whose
name was a household word back in the early days of the MIT Model Railroad
Club. jaggies: /jag'eez/ n. The `stairstep' effect observable when an edge
(esp. a linear edge of shallow or steep slope) is rendered on a pixel device
(as opposed to a vector display). JCL: 1. IBM's ultimately {rude} `Job
Control Language'. JCL is the script language used to control the execution
of programs in IBM's batch systems. JCL has a very {fascist} syntax, and some
versions will, for example, {barf} if two spaces appear where it expects one.
Most programmers confronted with JCL simply copy a working file (or card
deck), changing the file names. Someone who actually understands and
generates unique JCL is regarded with the mixed respect which one gives to
someone who memorizes the phone book. 2. Any very {rude} software that a
hacker is expected to use. "That's as bad as JCL." Often used without having
experienced it, as is {COBOL}. see also {IBM}, {fear and loathing}.