 JFCL: /jif'kl/ or /jaf'kl/ vt., obs. (alt. `jfcl') To cancel or annul
something. "Why don't you jfcl that out?" The fastest do-nothing instruction
on the PDP-10 happened to be JFCL, which stands for "Jump if Flag set and
then CLear the flag"; this does something useful, but is a very fast
no-operation if no flag is specified. Geoff Goodfellow, one of the jargon-1
co-authors, has long had JFCL on the license plate of his BMW. Usage: rare
except among old-time PDP-10 hackers. jiffy: n. 1. The duration of one tick
of the system clock on the computer (see {tick}). Often 1 AC cycle time (1/60
second in the U.S. and Canada, 1/50 most other places) but more recently
1/100 sec has become common. "The swapper runs every six jiffies" means that
the virtual memory management routine is executed once for every six ticks of
the clock, or about ten times a second. 2. Confusingly, the term is sometimes
also used for a 1-millisecond {wall time} interval. 3. Indeterminate time
from a few seconds to forever. "I'll do it in a jiffy" means certainly not
now and possibly never. This is a bit contrary to the more widespread use of
the word. see also {Real Soon Now}. job security: n. When some piece of code
is written in a particularly {obscure} fashion, and no good reason (such as
time or space optimization) can be discovered, it is often said that the
programmer was attempting to increase his job security (i.e. by making
himself indispensable for maintenance). This sour joke seldom has to be said
in full; if two hackers are looking over some code together and one points at
a section and says `job security' the other one will generally just nod.
jock: n. 1. Programmer who is characterized by large and somewhat brute-force
programs. see {brute force}. 2. When modified by another noun, describes a
specialist in some particular computing area. The compounds `compiler jock'
and `systems jock' seem to be the best established examples of this. joe
code: /joh' kohd`/ [said to commemorate a notoriously bad coder named Joe at
Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory] n. Badly written, possibly buggy source code.
Correspondents wishing to remain anonymous have fingered a particular Joe and
observed that usage has drifted slightly; they described his code as "overly
{tense} and unmaintainable". "{Perl} may be a handy program, but if you look
at the source, it's complete joe code."