 JR[LN]: /J-R-L/, /J-R-N/ n. The names JRL and JRN were sometimes used as
example names when discussing a kind of user ID used under {{TOPS-10}}; they
were understood to be the initials of (fictitious) programmers named `J.
Random Loser' and `J. Random Nerd' (see {J. Random}). For example, if one
said "To log in, type log one comma jay are en" (that is, "log 1,JRN"), the
listener would have understood that he should use his own computer ID in
place of `JRN'. JRST: /jerst/ [based on the PDP-10 jump instruction] v.,obs.
To suddenly change subjects, with no intention of returning to the previous
topic. Usage: rather rare except among PDP-10 diehards, and considered silly.
see also {AOS}. juggling eggs: vi. Keeping a lot of {state} in your head
while modifying a program. "Don't bother me now, I'm juggling eggs", means
that an interrupt is likely to result in the program's being scrambled. In
the classic first-contact SF novel `The Mote in God's Eye', by Larry Niven
and Jerry Pournelle, an alien describes a very difficult task by saying "We
juggle priceless eggs in variable gravity." That is a very hackish use of
language. see also {hack mode}. jump off into never-never land: [from J. M.
Barrie's `Peter Pan'] v. Same as {branch to Fishkill}, but more common in
technical cultures associated with non-IBM computers that use the term `jump'
rather than `branch'. Compare {hyperspace}. = K = ===== K: /K/ [from {kilo-}]
n. A kilobyte. This is used both as a spoken word and a written suffix (like
{meg} and {gig} for megabyte and gigabyte). see {{quantifiers}}. K&R:
[Kernighan and Ritchie] n. Brian Kernighan and Dennis Ritchie's book `The C
Programming Language', esp. the classic and influential first edition
(Prentice-Hall 1978; ISBN 0-113-110163-3). Syn. {White Book}, {Old
Testament}. see also {New Testament}. kahuna: /k*-hoo'nuh/ [IBM: from the
Hawaiian title for a shaman] n. Synonym for {wizard}, {guru}. kamikaze
packet: n. The `official' jargon for what is more commonly called a
{Christmas tree packet}. RFC-1025, `TCP and IP Bake Off' says: 10 points for
correctly being able to process a "Kamikaze" packet (AKA nastygram, christmas
tree packet, lamp test segment, et al.). That is, correctly handle a segment
with the maximum combination of features at once (e.g., a SYN URG PUSH FIN
segment with options and data). see also {Chernobyl packet}. kangaroo code:
n. Syn. {spaghetti code}. ken: /ken/ n. 1. [UNIX] Ken Thompson, principal
inventor of UNIX. In the early days he used to hand-cut distribution tapes,
often with a note that read "Love, ken". Old-timers still use his first name
(sometimes uncapitalized, because it's a login name and mail address) in
third-person reference; it is widely understood (on USENET, in particular)
that without a last name `Ken' refers only to Ken Thompson. Similarly, Dennis
without last name means Dennis Ritchie (and he is often known as dmr). see
also {demigod}, {{UNIX}}. 2. A flaming user. This was originated by the
Software Support group at Symbolics because the two greatest flamers in the
user community were both named Ken. kgbvax: /K-G-B'vaks/ n. see {kremvax}.
kill file: [USENET] n. (alt. `KILL file') Per-user file(s) used by some
{USENET} reading programs (originally Larry Wall's `rn(1)') to discard
summarily (without presenting for reading) articles matching some
particularly uninteresting (or unwanted) patterns of subject, author, or
other header lines. Thus to add a person (or subject) to one's kill file is
to arrange for that person to be ignored by one's newsreader in future. By
extension, it may be used for a decision to ignore the person or subject in
other media. see also {plonk}. killer micro: [popularized by Eugene Brooks]
n. A microprocessor-based machine that infringes on mini, mainframe, or
supercomputer performance turf. Often heard in "No one will survive the
attack of the killer micros!", the battle cry of the downsizers. Used esp. of
RISC architectures. The popularity of the phrase `attack of the killer
micros' is doubtless reinforced by the movie title "Attack Of The Killer
Tomatoes" (one of the {canonical} examples of so-bad-it's-wonderful among
hackers). This has even more flavor now that killer micros have gone on the
offensive not just individually (in workstations) but in hordes (within
massively parallel computers). killer poke: n. A recipe for inducing hardware
damage on a machine via insertion of invalid values (see {poke}) in a
memory-mapped control register; used esp. of various fairly well-known tricks
on {bitty box}es without hardware memory management (such as the IBM PC and
Commodore PET) that can overload and trash analog electronics in the monitor.
see also {HCF}. kilo-: [SI] pref. see {{quantifiers}}.