 JR[LN]: /jay ahr en/, /jay ahr el/ n. The names JRN and JRL were sometimes
used as example names when discussing a kind of user ID used under {TOPS-10};
they were understood to be the initials of (fictitious) programmers named `J.
Random Nerd' and `J. Random Loser' (see {J. Random}). For example, if one
said "To log in, type log one comma jay are en" (that is, "log#1,JRN"), the
listener would have understood that he should use his own computer id in
place of `JRN'. jump off into never never land: v. Same as {branch to
Fishkill}, but more common in technical cultures associated with non-IBM
computers which use the term `jump' rather than `branch'. Compare
{hyperspace}. = K = ===== K: /kay/ [from {kilo-}] n. A kilobyte. This is used
both as a spoken word and a written suffix (like {meg} and {gig} for megabyte
and gigabyte). The formal SI metric prefix for 1000 is `k'; some people use
this strictly, reserving `K' for multiplication by 1024. see also {kilo-}.
K&R: [Kernighan and Ritchie] n. Brian Kernighan & Dennis Ritchie's `The C
Programming Language', esp. the classic and influential first edition
(Prentice-Hall 1978, ISBN 0-113-110163-3). Syn. {White Book}, {Old
Testament}. see also {New Testament}. kahuna: /k@-hoo'nuh/ [IBM, from the
Hawaiian title for a shaman] n. Synonym for {wizard}, {guru}. ken: /ken/ n. A
flaming user. This noun was in use by the Software Support group at Symbolics
because the two greatest flamers in the user community were both named Ken.
kgbvax: /kay-jee-bee-vaks/ n. see {kremvax}. kill file: [USENET] n. (alt.
`KILL file') Per-user file(s) used by some {USENET} reading programs
(originally Larry Wall's `rn(1)') to discard summarily (without presenting
for reading) articles which match some particularly uninteresting (or
unwanted) patterns of subject, author, or other header lines. Thus to "add a
person (or subject) to one's kill file" is to arrange for that person to be
ignored by one's newsreader in future. By extension, it may be used for a
decision to ignore the person or subject in other media. killer micro:
[popularized by Eugene Brooks] n. A microprocessor-based machine that
infringes on mini, mainframe or supercomputer performance turf. Often heard
in "No one will survive the attack of the killer micros!", the battle cry of
the downsizers. Used esp. of RISC architectures. killer poke: n. A recipe for
inducing hardware damage on a machine via insertion of invalid values in a
memory-mapped control register; used esp. of various fairly well-known tricks
on MMU-less {bitty box}es like the IBM PC and Commodore PET that can overload
and trash analog electronics in the monitor. see also {HCF}. kilo-: [from
metric measure] prefix. 1.`kilo-' usually denotes multiplication by 1024
especially when used with bytes, and also with anything else perceived to
naturally come in powers of 2. With things that come in powers of 10, such as
money, it retains its usual meaning of multiplication of 1000. Similarly the
higher metric prefixes denote multiplication by powers of 1024 = 2 ^ 10
rather than of 1000: mega- for 1024 ^ 2 = 1,048,576, {giga-} for 1024 ^ 3 =
1,073,741,824, tera- meaning 1024 ^ 4 = 1,099,511,627,776, {peta-} meaning
1024 ^ 5 = 1,125,899,906,842,624, and {exa-} for 1024 ^ 6 =
1,152,921,504,606,846,976. Confusion of 1000 and 1024, for example describing
memory in units of 500K or 524K (see K) instead of 512K, is a sure sign of
the {marketroid}. KIPS: [acronym, by analogy with {MIPS} using {K}] n.
Thousands of Instructions Per Second. Usage: rare.