 :kluge: /klooj/ [from the German `klug', clever] 1. n. A Rube Goldberg (or
Heath Robinson) device, whether in hardware or software. (A long-ago
"Datamation" article by Jackson Granholme said: "An ill-assorted collection
of poorly matching parts, forming a distressing whole.") 2. n. A clever
programming trick intended to solve a particular nasty case in an expedient,
if not clear, manner. Often used to repair bugs. Often involves {ad-hockery}
and verges on being a {crock}. In fact, the TMRC Dictionary defined `kludge'
as "a crock that works". 3. n. Something that works for the wrong reason. 4.
vt. To insert a kluge into a program. "I've kluged this routine to get around
that weird bug, but there's probably a better way." 5. [WPI] n. A feature
that is implemented in a {rude} manner. Nowadays this term is often
encountered in the variant spelling `kludge'. Reports from {old fart}s are
consistent that `kluge' was the original spelling, reported around computers
as far back as the mid-1950s and, at that time, used exclusively of
*hardware* kluges. In 1947, the "New York Folklore Quarterly" reported a
classic shaggy-dog story `Murgatroyd the Kluge Maker' then current in the
Armed Forces, in which a `kluge' was a complex and puzzling artifact with a
trivial function. Other sources report that `kluge' was common Navy slang in
the WWII era for any piece of electronics that worked well on shore but
consistently failed at sea. However, there is reason to believe this slang
use may be a decade older. Several respondents have connected it to the brand
name of a device called a "Kluge paper feeder" dating back at least to 1935,
an adjunct to mechanical printing presses. The Kluge feeder was designed
before small, cheap electric motors and control electronics; it relied on a
fiendishly complex assortment of cams, belts, and linkages to both power and
synchronize all its operations from one motive driveshaft. It was accordingly
tempermental, subject to frequent breakdowns, and devilishly difficult to
repair --- but oh, so clever! One traditional folk etymology of `kluge' makes
it the name of a design engineer; in fact, `Kluge' is a surname in German,
and the designer of the Kluge feeder may well have been the man behind this
myth. {TMRC} and the MIT hacker culture of the early '60s seems to have
developed in a milieu that remembered and still used some WWII military slang
(see also {foobar}). It seems likely that `kluge' came to MIT via alumni of
the many military electronics projects that had been located in Cambridge
(many in MIT's venerable Building 20, in which {TMRC} is also located) during
the war. The variant `kludge' was apparently popularized by the {Datamation}
article mentioned above; it was titled "How to Design a Kludge" (February
1962, pp. 30, 31). Some people who encountered the word first in print or
on-line jumped to the reasonable but incorrect conclusion that the word
should be pronounced /kluhj/ (rhyming with `sludge'). The result of this
tangled history is a mess; in 1993, many (perhaps even most) hackers
pronounce the word correctly as /klooj/ but spell it incorrectly as `kludge'
(compare the pronunciation drift of {mung}). Some observers consider this
appropriate in view of its meaning.