 A bug in a protocol where, under some circumstances, the receipt of a
message causes multiple messages to be sent, each of which, when received,
triggers the same bug. Used esp. of such behavior caused by {bounce message}
loops in {email} software. Compare {broadcast storm}, {network meltdown},
{software laser}, {ARMM}. :SOS: /S-O-S/ n.,obs. An infamously {losing} text
editor. Once, back in the 1960s, when a text editor was needed for the PDP-6,
a hacker crufted together a {quick-and-dirty} `stopgap editor' to be used
until a better one was written. Unfortunately, the old one was never really
discarded when new ones came along. SOS is a descendant (`Son of Stopgap') of
that editor, and many PDP-10 users gained the dubious pleasure of its
acquaintance. Since then other programs similar in style to SOS have been
written, notably the early font editor BILOS /bye'lohs/, the Brother-In-Law
Of Stopgap (the alternate expansion `Bastard Issue, Loins of Stopgap' has
been proposed). :source: n. [very common] In reference to software, `source'
is invariably shorthand for `source code', the preferred human-readable and
human-modifiable form of the program. This is as opposed to object code, the
derived binary executable form of a program. This shorthand readily takes
derivative forms; one may speak of "the sources of a system" or of "having
source". :source of all good bits: n. A person from whom (or a place from
which) useful information may be obtained. If you need to know about a
program, a {guru} might be the source of all good bits. The title is often
applied to a particularly competent secretary. :space-cadet keyboard: n. A
now-legendary device used on MIT LISP machines, which inspired several
still-current jargon terms and influenced the design of {EMACS}. It was
equipped with no fewer than _seven_ shift keys: four keys for {bucky bits}
(`control', `meta', `hyper', and `super') and three like regular shift keys,
called `shift', `top', and `front'. Many keys had three symbols on them: a
letter and a symbol on the top, and a Greek letter on the front. For example,
the `L' key had an `L' and a two-way arrow on the top, and the Greek letter
lambda on the front. By pressing this key with the right hand while playing
an appropriate `chord' with the left hand on the shift keys, you could get
the following results: L lowercase l shift-L uppercase L front-L lowercase
lambda front-shift-L uppercase lambda top-L two-way arrow (front and shift
are ignored) And of course each of these might also be typed with any
combination of the control, meta, hyper, and super keys. On this keyboard,
you could type over 8000 different characters! This allowed the user to type
very complicated mathematical text, and also to have thousands of
single-character commands at his disposal. Many hackers were actually willing
to memorize the command meanings of that many characters if it reduced typing
time (this attitude obviously shaped the interface of EMACS). Other hackers,
however, thought having that many bucky bits was overkill, and objected that
such a keyboard can require three or four hands to operate. see {bucky bits},
{cokebottle}, {double bucky}, {meta bit}, {quadruple bucky}. Note: early
versions of this entry incorrectly identified the space-cadet keyboard with
the `Knight keyboard'. Though both were designed by Tom Knight, the latter
term was properly applied only to a keyboard used for ITS on the PDP-10 and
modeled on the Stanford keyboard (as described under {bucky bits}). The true
space-cadet keyboard evolved from the first Knight keyboard. :spaceship
operator: n. The glyph `<=>', so-called apparently because in the
low-resolution constant-width font used on many terminals it vaguely
resembles a flying saucer. {Perl} uses this to denote the
signum-of-difference operation. :SPACEWAR: n. A space-combat simulation game,
inspired by E. E. "Doc" Smith's "Lensman" books, in which two spaceships duel
around a central sun, shooting torpedoes at each other and jumping through
hyperspace. This game was first implemented on the PDP-1 at MIT in 1962. In
1968-69, a descendant of the game motivated Ken Thompson to build, in his
spare time on a scavenged PDP-7, the operating system that became {{Unix}}.
Less than nine years after that, SPACEWAR was commercialized as one of the
first video games; descendants are still {feep}ing in video arcades
everywhere. :spaghetti code: n. Code with a complex and tangled control
structure, esp. one using many GOTOs, exceptions, or other `unstructured'
branching constructs. Pejorative. The synonym `kangaroo code' has been
reported, doubtless because such code has so many jumps in it. :spaghetti
inheritance: n. [encountered among users of object-oriented languages that
use inheritance, such as Smalltalk] A convoluted class-subclass graph, often
resulting from carelessly deriving subclasses from other classes just for the
sake of reusing their code. Coined in a (successful) attempt to discourage
such practice, through guilt-by-association with {spaghetti code}. :spam:
vt.,vi.,n. [from "Monty Python's Flying Circus"] 1. To crash a program by
overrunning a fixed-size buffer with excessively large input data. see also
{buffer overflow}, {overrun screw}, {smash the stack}. 2. To cause a
newsgroup to be flooded with irrelevant or inappropriate messages. You can
spam a newsgroup with as little as one well- (or ill-) planned message (e.g.
asking "What do you think of abortion?" on soc.women). This is often done
with {cross-post}ing (e.g. any message which is crossposted to
alt.rush-limbaugh and alt.politics.homosexuality will almost inevitably spam
both groups). This overlaps with {troll} behavior; the latter more specific
term has become more common. 3. To send many identical or nearly-identical
messages separately to a large number of Usenet newsgroups. This is more
specifically called `ECP', Excessive Cross-Posting. This is one sure way to
infuriate nearly everyone on the Net. see also {velveeta} and {jello}. 4. To
bombard a newsgroup with multiple copies of a message. This is more
specifically called `EMP', Excessive Multi-Posting. 5. To mass-mail
unrequested identical or nearly-identical email messages, particularly those
containing advertising. Especially used when the mail addresses have been
culled from network traffic or databases without the consent of the
recipients. Synonyms include {UCE}, {UBE}. 6. Any large, annoying, quantity
of output. For instance, someone on IRC who walks away from their screen and
comes back to find 200 lines of text might say "Oh no, spam". The later
definitions have become much more prevalent as the Internet has opened up to
non-techies, and to most people senses 3 4 and