 LPT: /L-P-T/ or /lip'it/ or /lip-it'/ [MIT, via DEC] n. Line printer, of
course. Rare under UNIX, commoner in hackers with MS-DOS or CP/M background.
The printer device is called `LPT:' on those systems that, like ITS, were
strongly influenced by early DEC conventions. lunatic fringe: [IBM] n.
Customers who can be relied upon to accept release 1 versions of software.
lurker: n. One of the `silent majority' in a electronic forum; one who posts
occasionally or not at all but is known to read the group's postings
regularly. This term is not pejorative and indeed is casually used
reflexively: "Oh, I'm just lurking." Often used in `the lurkers', the
hypothetical audience for the group's {flamage}-emitting regulars. luser:
/loo'zr/ n. A {user}; esp. one who is also a {loser}. ({luser} and {loser}
are pronounced identically.) This word was coined around 1975 at MIT. Under
ITS, when you first walked up to a terminal at MIT and typed Control-Z to get
the computer's attention, it printed out some status information, including
how many people were already using the computer; it might print "14 users",
for example. Someone thought it would be a great joke to patch the system to
print "14 losers" instead. There ensued a great controversy, as some of the
users didn't particularly want to be called losers to their faces every time
they used the computer. For a while several hackers struggled covertly, each
changing the message behind the back of the others; any time you logged into
the computer it was even money whether it would say "users" or "losers".
Finally, someone tried the compromise "lusers", and it stuck. Later one of
the ITS machines supported `luser' as a request-for-help command. ITS died
the death in mid-1990, except as a museum piece; the usage lives on, however,
and the term `luser' is often seen in program comments. = M = ===== M: [SI]
pref. (on units) suff. (on numbers) see {{quantifiers}}. macdink: /mak'dink/
[from the Apple Macintosh, which is said to encourage such behavior] vt. To
make many incremental and unnecessary cosmetic changes to a program or file.
Often the subject of the macdinking would be better off without them. "When I
left at 11 P.M. last night, he was still macdinking the slides for his
presentation." see also {fritterware}. machinable: adj. Machine-readable.
Having the {softcopy} nature. machoflops: /mach'oh-flops/ [pun on
`megaflops', a coinage for `millions of FLoating-point Operations Per
Second'] n. Refers to artificially inflated performance figures often quoted
by computer manufacturers. Real applications are lucky to get half the quoted
speed. see {Your mileage may vary}, {benchmark}. Macintoy: /mak'in-toy/ n.
The Apple Macintosh, considered as a {toy}. Less pejorative than
{Macintrash}. Macintrash: /mak'in-trash`/ n. The Apple Macintosh, as
described by a hacker who doesn't appreciate being kept away from the *real
computer* by the interface. The term {maggotbox} has been reported in regular
use in the Research Triangle area of North Carolina. Compare {Macintoy}. see
also {beige toaster}, {WIMP environment}, {drool-proof paper},
{user-friendly}. macro: /mak'roh/ [techspeak] n. A name (possibly followed by
a formal {arg} list) that is equated to a text or symbolic expression to
which it is to be expanded (possibly with the substitution of actual
arguments) by a macro expander. This definition can be found in any technical
dictionary; what those won't tell you is how the hackish connotations of the
term have changed over time. The term `macro' originated in early assemblers,
which encouraged the use of macros as a structuring and information-hiding
device. During the early 1970s, macro assemblers became ubiquitous, and
sometimes quite as powerful and expensive as {HLL}s, only to fall from favor
as improving compiler technology marginalized assembler programming (see
{languages of choice}). Nowadays the term is most often used in connection
with the C preprocessor, LISP, or one of several special-purpose languages
built around a macro-expansion facility (such as TeX or UNIX's [nt]roff
suite). Indeed, the meaning has drifted enough that the collective `macros'
is now sometimes used for code in any special-purpose application control
language (whether or not the language is actually translated by text
expansion), and for macro-like entities such as the `keyboard macros'
supported in some text editors (and PC TSR or Macintosh INIT/CDEV keyboard
enhancers). macro-: pref. Large. Opposite of {micro-}. In the mainstream and
among other technical cultures (for example, medical people) this competes
with the prefix {mega-}, but hackers tend to restrict the latter to
quantification. macrology: /mak-rol'*-jee/ n. 1. Set of usually complex or
crufty macros, e.g., as part of a large system written in {LISP}, {TECO}, or
(less commonly) assembler. 2. The art and science involved in comprehending a
macrology in sense 1. Sometimes studying the macrology of a system is not
unlike archeology, ecology, or {theology}, hence the sound-alike
construction. see also {boxology}. macrotape: /ma'kroh-tayp/ n. An
industry-standard reel of tape, as opposed to a {microtape}. maggotbox:
/mag'*t-boks/ n. see {Macintrash}. This is even more derogatory. magic: adj.
1. As yet unexplained, or too complicated to explain; compare {automagically}
and (Arthur C.) Clarke's Third Law: "Any sufficiently advanced technology is
indistinguishable from magic." "TTY echoing is controlled by a large number
of magic bits." "This routine magically computes the parity of an 8-bit byte
in three instructions." 2. Characteristic of something that works although no
one really understands why (this is especially called {black magic}). 3.
[Stanford] A feature not generally publicized that allows something otherwise
impossible, or a feature formerly in that category but now unveiled. Compare
{black magic}, {wizardly}, {deep magic}, {heavy wizardry}. For more about
hackish `magic', see appendix A. magic cookie: [UNIX] n. 1. Something passed
between routines or programs that enables the receiver to perform some
operation; a capability ticket or opaque identifier. Especially used of small
data objects that contain data encoded in a strange or intrinsically
machine-dependent way. E.g., on non-UNIX OSes with a non-byte-stream model of
files, the result of `ftell(3)' may be a magic cookie rather than a byte
offset; it can be passed to `fseek(3)', but not operated on in any meaningful
way. The phrase `it hands you a magic cookie' means it returns a result whose
contents are not defined but which can be passed back to the same or some
other program later. 2. An in-band code for changing graphic rendition (e.g.,
inverse video or underlining) or performing other control functions. Some
older terminals would leave a blank on the screen corresponding to
mode-change magic cookies; this was also called a {glitch}. see also
{cookie}. magic number: [UNIX/C] n. 1. In source code, some non-obvious
constant whose value is significant to the operation of a program and that is
inserted inconspicuously in-line ({hardcoded}), rather than expanded in by a
symbol set by a commented `#define'. Magic numbers in this sense are bad
style. 2. A number that encodes critical information used in an algorithm in
some opaque way. The classic examples of these are the numbers used in hash
or CRC functions, or the coefficients in a linear congruential generator for
pseudo-random numbers. This sense actually predates and was ancestral to the
more common sense 1. 3. Special data located at the beginning of a binary
data file to indicate its type to a utility. Under UNIX, the system and
various applications programs (especially the linker) distinguish between
types of executable file by looking for a magic number. Once upon a time,
these magic numbers were PDP-11 branch instructions that skipped over header
data to the start of executable code; the 0407, for example, was octal for
`branch 16 bytes relative'. Nowadays only a {wizard} knows the spells to
create magic numbers. How do you choose a fresh magic number of your own?
Simple --- you pick one at random. see? It's magic! magic smoke: n. A
substance trapped inside IC packages that enables them to function (also
called `blue smoke'; this is similar to the archaic `phlogiston' hypothesis
about combustion). Its existence is demonstrated by what happens when a chip
burns up --- the magic smoke gets let out, so it doesn't work any more. see
{smoke test}, {let the smoke out}. USENETter Jay Maynard tells the following
story: "Once, while hacking on a dedicated Z80 system, I was testing code by
blowing EPROMs and plugging them in the system, then seeing what happened.
One time, I plugged one in backwards. I only discovered that *after* I
realized that Intel didn't put power-on lights under the quartz windows on
the tops of their EPROMs --- the die was glowing white-hot. Amazingly, the
EPROM worked fine after I erased it, filled it full of zeros, then erased it
again. For all I know, it's still in service. Of course, this is because the
magic smoke didn't get let out." Compare the original phrasing of {Murphy's
Law}. mailing list: n. (often shortened in context to `list') 1. An {email}
address that is an alias (or {macro}, though that word is never used in this
connection) for many other email addresses. Some mailing lists are simple
`reflectors', redirecting mail sent to them to the list of recipients. Others
are filtered by humans or programs of varying degrees of sophistication;
lists filtered by humans are said to be `moderated'. 2. The people who
receive your email when you send it to such an address. Mailing lists are one
of the primary forms of hacker interaction, along with {USENET}. They predate
USENET, having originated with the first UUCP and ARPANET connections. They
are often used for private information-sharing on topics that would be too
specialized for or inappropriate to public USENET groups. Though some of
these maintain purely technical content (such as the Internet Engineering
Task Force mailing list), others (like the `sf-lovers' list maintained for
many years by Saul Jaffe) are recreational, and others are purely social.
Perhaps the most infamous of the social lists was the eccentric bandykin
distribution; its latter-day progeny, lectroids and tanstaafl, still include
a number of the oddest and most interesting people in hackerdom. Mailing
lists are easy to create and (unlike USENET) don't tie up a significant
amount of machine resources. Thus, they are often created temporarily by
working groups, the members of which can then collaborate on a project
without ever needing to meet face-to-face. Much of the material in this book
was criticized and polished on just such a mailing list (called
`jargon-friends'), which included all the co-authors of Steele-1983. main
loop: n. Software tools are often written to perform some actions repeatedly
on whatever input is handed to them, terminating when there is no more input
or they are explicitly told to go away. In such programs, the loop that gets
and processes input is called the `main loop'. see also {driver}. mainframe:
n. This term originally referred to the cabinet containing the central
processor unit or `main frame' of a room-filling {Stone Age} batch machine.
After the emergence of smaller `minicomputer' designs in the early 1970s, the
traditional {big iron} machines were described as `mainframe computers' and
eventually just as mainframes. The term carries the connotation of a machine
designed for batch rather than interactive use, though possibly with an
interactive timesharing operating system retrofitted onto it; it is
especially used of machines built by IBM, Unisys, and the other great
{dinosaur}s surviving from computing's {Stone Age}. It is common wisdom among
hackers that the mainframe architectural tradition is essentially dead
(outside of the tiny market for {number-crunching} supercomputers (see
{cray})), having been swamped by the recent huge advances in IC technology
and low-cost personal computing. As of 1991, corporate America hasn't quite
figured this out yet, though the wave of failures, takeovers, and mergers
among traditional mainframe makers are certainly straws in the wind (see
{dinosaurs mating}). management: n. 1. Corporate power elites distinguished
primarily by their distance from actual productive work and their chronic
failure to manage (see also {suit}). Spoken derisively, as in "*Management*
decided that ...". 2. Mythically, a vast bureaucracy responsible for all the
world's minor irritations. Hackers' satirical public notices are often signed
`The Mgt'; this derives from the `Illuminatus' novels (see the Bibliography).
mandelbug: /mon'del-buhg/ [from the Mandelbrot set] n. A bug whose underlying
causes are so complex and obscure as to make its behavior appear chaotic or
even non-deterministic. This term implies that the speaker thinks it is a
{Bohr bug}, rather than a {heisenbug}. manged: /monjd/ [probably from the
French `manger' or Italian `mangiare', to eat; perhaps influenced by English
n. `mange', `mangy'] adj. Refers to anything that is mangled or damaged,
usually beyond repair. "The disk was manged after the electrical storm."
Compare {mung}. mangle: vt. Used similarly to {mung} or {scribble}, but more
violent in its connotations; something that is mangled has been irreversibly
and totally trashed. mangler: [DEC] n. A manager. Compare {mango}; see also
{management}. Note that {system mangler} is somewhat different in
connotation. mango: /mang'go/ [orig. in-house jargon at Symbolics] n. A
manager. Compare {mangler}. see also {devo} and {doco}. marbles: [from
mainstream "lost all his/her marbles"] pl.n. The minimum needed to build your
way further up some hierarchy of tools or abstractions. After a bad system
crash, you need to determine if the machine has enough marbles to come up on
its own, or enough marbles to allow a rebuild from backups, or if you need to
rebuild from scratch. "This compiler doesn't even have enough marbles to
compile `Hello World'." marginal: adj. 1. Extremely small. "A marginal
increase in {core} can decrease {GC} time drastically." In everyday terms,
this means that it is a lot easier to clean off your desk if you have a spare
place to put some of the junk while you sort through it. 2. Of extremely
small merit. "This proposed new feature seems rather marginal to me." 3. Of
extremely small probability of {win}ning. "The power supply was rather
marginal anyway; no wonder it fried." Marginal Hacks: n. Margaret Jacks Hall,
a building into which the Stanford AI Lab was moved near the beginning of the
1980s (from the {D. C. Power Lab}). marginally: adv. Slightly. "The ravs here
are only marginally better than at Small Eating Place." see {epsilon}.
marketroid: /mar'k*-troyd/ alt. `marketing slime', `marketing droid',
`marketeer' n. A member of a company's marketing department, esp. one who
promises users that the next version of a product will have features that are
not actually scheduled for inclusion, are extremely difficult to implement,
and/or are in violation of the laws of physics; and/or one who describes
existing features (and misfeatures) in ebullient, buzzword-laden adspeak.
Derogatory. Compare {droid}. Mars: n. A legendary tragic failure, the
archetypal Hacker Dream Gone Wrong. Mars was the code name for a family of
PDP-10 compatible computers built by Systems Concepts (now, The SC Group);
the multi-processor SC-30M, the small uniprocessor SC-25M, and the
never-built superprocessor SC-40M. These machines were marvels of engineering
design; although not much slower than the unique {Foonly} F-1, they were
physically smaller and consumed less power than the much slower DEC KS10 or
Foonly F-2, F-3, or F-4 machines. They were slso completely compatible with
the DEC KL10, and ran all KL10 binaries, including the operating system, with
no modifications at about 2--3 times faster than a KL10. When DEC cancelled
the Jupiter project in 1983, Systems Concepts should have made a bundle
selling their machine into shops with a lot of software investment in
PDP-10s, and in fact their spring 1984 announcement generated a great deal of
excitement in the PDP-10 world. TOPS-10 was running on the Mars by the summer
of 1984, and TOPS-20 by early fall. Unfortunately, the hackers running
Systems Concepts were much better at designing machines than in mass
producing or selling them; the company allowed itself to be sidetracked by a
bout of perfectionism into continually improving the design, and lost
credibility as delivery dates continued to slip. They also overpriced the
product ridiculously; they believed they were competing with the KL10 and VAX
8600 and failed to reckon with the likes of Sun Microsystems and other hungry
startups building workstations with power comparable to the KL10 at a
fraction of the price. By the time SC shipped the first SC-30M to Stanford in
late 1985, most customers had already made the traumatic decision to abandon
the PDP-10, usually for VMS or UNIX boxes. Most of the Mars computers built
ended up being purchased by CompuServe. This tale and the related saga of
Foonly hold a lesson for hackers: if you want to play in the Real World, you
need to learn Real World moves. martian: n. A packet sent on a TCP/IP network
with a source address of the test loopback interface [127.0.0.1]. This means
that it will come back at you labeled with a source address that is clearly
not of this earth. "The domain server is getting lots of packets from Mars.
Does that gateway have a martian filter?" massage: vt. Vague term used to
describe `smooth' transformations of a data set into a different form, esp.
transformations that do not lose information. Connotes less pain than {munch}
or {crunch}. "He wrote a program that massages X bitmap files into GIF
format." Compare {slurp}. math-out: [poss. from `white-out' (the blizzard
variety)] n. A paper or presentation so encrusted with mathematical or other
formal notation as to be incomprehensible. This may be a device for
concealing the fact that it is actually {content-free}. see also {numbers},
{social science number}. Matrix: [FidoNet] n. 1. What the Opus BBS software
and sysops call {FidoNet}. 2. Fanciful term for a {cyberspace} expected to
emerge from current networking experiments (see {network, the}). Some people
refer to the totality of present networks this way. Mbogo, Dr. Fred:
/*m-boh'goh, dok'tr fred/ [Stanford] n. The archetypal man you don't want to
see about a problem, esp. an incompetent professional; a shyster. "Do you
know a good eye doctor?" "Sure, try Mbogo Eye Care and Professional Dry
Cleaning." The name comes from synergy between {bogus} and the original Dr.
Mbogo, a witch doctor who was Gomez Addams' physician on the old "Addams
Family" TV show. see also {fred}. meatware: n. Synonym for {wetware}. Less
common. meeces: /mees'*z/ [TMRC] n. Occasional furry visitors who are not
{urchin}s. [That is, mice. This may no longer be in live use; it clearly
derives from the refrain of the early-1960s cartoon character Mr. Jinx: "I
hate meeces to *pieces*!" --- ESR] meg: /meg/ n. see {{quantifiers}}. mega-:
/me'g*/ [SI] pref. see {{quantifiers}}. megapenny: /meg'*-pen`ee/ n. $10,000
(1 cent * 10^6). Used semi-humorously as a unit in comparing computer cost
and performance figures.