 :magic number: n. [Unix/C; common] 1. In source code, some non-obvious
constant whose value is significant to the operation of a program and that is
inserted inconspicuously in-line ({hardcoded}), rather than expanded in by a
symbol set by a commented `#define'. Magic numbers in this sense are bad
style. 2. A number that encodes critical information used in an algorithm in
some opaque way. The classic examples of these are the numbers used in hash
or CRC functions, or the coefficients in a linear congruential generator for
pseudo-random numbers. This sense actually predates and was ancestral to the
more common sense 1. 3. Special data located at the beginning of a binary
data file to indicate its type to a utility. Under Unix, the system and
various applications programs (especially the linker) distinguish between
types of executable file by looking for a magic number. Once upon a time,
these magic numbers were PDP-11 branch instructions that skipped over header
data to the start of executable code; 0407, for example, was octal for
`branch 16 bytes relative'. Many other kinds of files now have magic numbers
somewhere; some magic numbers are, in fact, strings, like the `!<arch>' at
the beginning of a Unix archive file or the `%!' leading PostScript files.
Nowadays only a {wizard} knows the spells to create magic numbers. How do you
choose a fresh magic number of your own? Simple -- you pick one at random.
see? It's magic! _The_ magic number, on the other hand, is 7+/-2. see "The
magical number seven, plus or minus two: some limits on our capacity for
processing information" by George Miller, in the "Psychological Review"
63:81-97 (1956). This classic paper established the number of distinct items
(such as numeric digits) that humans can hold in short-term memory. Among
other things, this strongly influenced the interface design of the phone
system.