 :mailing list: n. (often shortened in context to `list') 1. An {email}
address that is an alias (or {macro}, though that word is never used in this
connection) for many other email addresses. Some mailing lists are simple
`reflectors', redirecting mail sent to them to the list of recipients. Others
are filtered by humans or programs of varying degrees of sophistication;
lists filtered by humans are said to be `moderated'. 2. The people who
receive your email when you send it to such an address. Mailing lists are one
of the primary forms of hacker interaction, along with {USENET}. They predate
USENET, having originated with the first UUCP and ARPANET connections. They
are often used for private information-sharing on topics that would be too
specialized for or inappropriate to public USENET groups. Though some of
these maintain purely technical content (such as the Internet Engineering
Task Force mailing list), others (like the `sf-lovers' list maintained for
many years by Saul Jaffe) are recreational, and others are purely social.
Perhaps the most infamous of the social lists was the eccentric bandykin
distribution; its latter-day progeny, lectroids and tanstaafl, still include
a number of the oddest and most interesting people in hackerdom. Mailing
lists are easy to create and (unlike USENET) don't tie up a significant
amount of machine resources (until they get very large, at which point they
can become interesting torture tests for mail software). Thus, they are often
created temporarily by working groups, the members of which can then
collaborate on a project without ever needing to meet face-to-face. Much of
the material in this lexicon was criticized and polished on just such a
mailing list (called `jargon-friends'), which included all the co-authors of
Steele-1983.