 :mainframe: n. Term originally referring to the cabinet containing the
central processor unit or `main frame' of a room-filling {Stone Age} batch
machine. After the emergence of smaller `minicomputer' designs in the early
1970s, the traditional {big iron} machines were described as `mainframe
computers' and eventually just as mainframes. The term carries the
connotation of a machine designed for batch rather than interactive use,
though possibly with an interactive timesharing operating system retrofitted
onto it; it is especially used of machines built by IBM, Unisys, and the
other great {dinosaur}s surviving from computing's {Stone Age}. It has been
common wisdom among hackers since the late 1980s that the mainframe
architectural tradition is essentially dead (outside of the tiny market for
{number-crunching} supercomputers (see {cray})), having been swamped by the
recent huge advances in IC technology and low-cost personal computing. The
wave of failures, takeovers, and mergers among traditional mainframe makers
in the early 1990s bore this out. The biggest mainframer of all, IBM, was
compelled to re-invent itself as a huge systems-consulting house. (see
{dinosaurs mating} and {killer micro}). However, in yet another instance of
the {cycle of reincarnation}, the port of Linux to the IBM S/390 architecture
in 1999 - assisted by IBM - produced a resurgence of interest in mainframe
computing as a way of providing huge quanitities of easily maintainable,
reliable virtual Linux servers, saving IBM's mainframe division from almost
certain extinction.