 MEGO: /me'goh/ or /mee'goh/ [My Eyes Glaze Over, often Mine Eyes Glazeth
(sic) Over, attributed to the futurologist Herman Kahn] Also `MEGO factor'.
1. n. Handwaving intended to confuse the listener and hopefully induce
agreement because the listener does not want to admit to not understanding
what is going on. MEGO is usually directed at senior management by engineers
and contains a high proportion of {TLA}s. 2. excl. An appropriate response to
MEGO tactics. 3. Among non-hackers this term often refers not to behavior
which causes the eyes to glaze, but the eye-glazing reaction itself, which
may be triggered by the mere threat of technical detail as effectively as by
an actual excess of it. meltdown, network: n. see {network meltdown}. meme:
/meem/ [coined on analogy with `gene' by Richard Dawkins] n. An idea
considered as a {replicator}, esp. with the connotation that memes parasitize
people into propagating them much as viruses do. Used esp. in the phrase
`meme complex' denoting a group of mutually supporting memes which form an
organized belief system, such as a religion. This dictionary is an
(epidemiological) vector of the `hacker subculture' meme complex; each entry
might be considered a meme. However, `meme' is often misused to mean `meme
complex'. Use of the term connotes acceptance of the idea that in humans (and
presumably other tool-and language-using sophonts) cultural evolution by
selection of adaptive ideas has superseded biological evolution by selection
of hereditary traits. Hackers find this idea congenial for tolerably obvious
reasons. meme plague: n. The spread of a successful but pernicious {meme},
esp. one which `parasitizes' the victims into giving their all to propagate
it. Astrology, BASIC, and the other guy's religion are often considered to be
examples. This usage is given point by the historical fact that `joiner'
ideologies like Naziism or various forms of millennarian Christianity have
exhibited plague-like cycles of exponential growth followed by collapse to
small reservoir populations. memetics: /m*-met'iks/ [from {meme}] The study
of memes. As of mid-1991, this is still an extremely informal and speculative
endeavor, though the first steps towards at least statistical rigor have been
made by H. Keith Henson and others. Memetics is a popular topic among
hackers, who like to see themselves as the architects of the new information
ecologies in which memes live and replicate. memory leak: n. An error in a
program's dynamic-store allocation logic that causes it to fail to reclaim
discarded memory, leading to attempted hogging of main store and eventual
collapse due to memory exhaustion. Also (esp. at CMU) called {core leak}. see
{aliasing bug}, {fandango on core}, {smash the stack}, {precedence lossage},
{overrun screw}, {leaky heap}. menuitis: /men`yoo-ie'tis/ n. Notional disease
suffered by software with an obsessively simple-minded menu interface and no
escape. Hackers find this intensely irritating and much prefer the
flexibility of command-line or language-style interfaces, especially those
customizable via macros or a special-purpose language in which one can encode
useful hacks. see {user-obsequious}, {drool-proof paper}, {WIMP environment},
{for the rest of us}. mess-dos: /mes-dos/ n. Derisory term for MS-DOS. Often
followed by the ritual expurgation "Just Say No!". see MS-DOS. Most hackers
(even many MS-DOS hackers) loathe MS-DOS for its single-tasking nature, its
limits on application size, its nasty primitive interface, and its ties to
IBMness (see {fear and loathing}). Also `mess-loss', `messy-dos', `mess-dog',
`mess-dross', `mush-dos', and various combinations thereof. In Ireland it is
even sometimes called `Domestos' after a brand of toilet cleanser. meta:
/me't*/ or /may't*/ or (Commonwealth) /mee't*/ [from analytic philosophy]
adj. One level of description up. Thus, a meta-syntactic variable is a
variable in notation used to describe syntax and meta-language is language
used to describe language. This is difficult to explain briefly, but much
hacker humor turns on deliberate confusion between meta-levels. see {{Humor,
Hacker}}. meta bit: n. The top bit of an 8-bit character, on in character
values 128--255. Also called {high bit}, {alt bit}, or {hobbit}. Some
terminals and consoles (see {space-cadet keyboard}) have a META shift key.
Others (including, *mirabile dictu*, keyboards on IBM PC-class machines) have
an ALT key. see also {bucky bits}.