 :metasyntactic variable: /n./ A name used in examples and understood to
stand for whatever thing is under discussion, or any random member of a class
of things under discussion. The word {foo} is the {canonical} example. To
avoid confusion, hackers never (well, hardly ever) use `foo' or other words
like it as permanent names for anything. In filenames, a common convention is
that any filename beginning with a metasyntactic-variable name is a {scratch}
file that may be deleted at any time. To some extent, the list of one's
preferred metasyntactic variables is a cultural signature. They occur both in
series (used for related groups of variables or objects) and as singletons.
Here are a few common signatures: {foo}, {bar}, {baz}, {quux}, quuux,
quuuux...: MIT/Stanford usage, now found everywhere (thanks largely to early
versions of this lexicon!). At MIT (but not at Stanford), {baz} dropped out
of use for a while in the 1970s and '80s. A common recent mutation of this
sequence inserts {qux} before {quux}. bazola, ztesch: Stanford (from mid-'70s
on). {foo}, {bar}, thud, grunt: This series was popular at CMU. Other
CMU-associated variables include {gorp}. {foo}, {bar}, fum: This series is
reported to be common at XEROX PARC. {fred}, {barney}: see the entry for
{fred}. These tend to be Britishisms. {corge}, {grault}, {flarp}: Popular at
Rutgers University and among {GOSMACS} hackers. zxc, spqr, wombat: Cambridge
University (England). shme Berkeley, GeoWorks, Ingres. Pronounced /shme/ with
a short /e/. snork Brown Universtity, early 1970s. {foo}, {bar}, zot Helsinki
University of Technology, Finland. blarg, wibble New Zealand. toto, titi,
tata, tutu France. pippo, pluto, paperino Italy. Pippo /pee'po/ and Paperino
/pa-per-ee'-no/ are the Italian names for Goofy and Donald Duck. aap, noot,
mies The Netherlands. These are the first words a child used to learn to
spell on a Dutch spelling board. Of all these, only `foo' and `bar' are
universal (and {baz} nearly so). The compounds {foobar} and `foobaz' also
enjoy very wide currency. Some jargon terms are also used as metasyntactic
names; {barf} and {mumble}, for example. see also {{Commonwealth Hackish}}
for discussion of numerous metasyntactic variables found in Great Britain and
the Commonwealth.