 MFTL: /M-F-T-L/ [acronym: `My Favorite Toy Language'] 1. adj. Describes a
talk on a programming language design that is heavy on the syntax (with lots
of BNF), sometimes even talks about semantics (e.g., type systems), but
rarely, if ever, has any content (see {content-free}). More broadly applied
to talks --- even when the topic is not a programming language --- in which
the subject matter is gone into in unnecessary and meticulous detail at the
sacrifice of any conceptual content. "Well, it was a typical MFTL talk". 2.
n. Describes a language about which the developers are passionate (often to
the point of prosyletic zeal) but no one else cares about. Applied to the
language by those outside the originating group. "He cornered me about type
resolution in his MFTL." The first great goal in the mind of the designer of
an MFTL is usually to write a compiler for it, then bootstrap the design away
from contamination by lesser languages by writing a compiler for it in
itself. Thus, the standard put-down question at an MFTL talk is "Has it been
used for anything besides its own compiler?". On the other hand, a language
that *cannot* be used to write its own compiler is beneath contempt...
mickey: n. The resolution unit of mouse movement. It has been suggested that
the `disney' will become a benchmark unit for animation graphics performance.
mickey mouse program: n. North American equivalent of a {noddy} (that is,
trivial) program. Doesn't necessarily have the belittling connotations of
mainstream slang "Oh, that's just mickey mouse stuff!"; sometimes trivial
programs can be very useful. micro-: pref. 1. Very small; this is the root of
its use as a quantifier prefix. 2. A quantifier prefix, calling for
multiplication by 10^{-6} (see {{quantifiers}}). Neither of these uses is
peculiar to hackers, but hackers tend to fling them both around rather more
freely than is countenanced in standard English. It is recorded, for example,
that one CS professor used to characterize the standard length of his
lectures as a microcentury --- that is, about 52.6 minutes (see also
{attoparsec}, {nanoacre}, and especially {microfortnight}). 3. Personal or
human-scale --- that is, capable of being maintained or comprehended or
manipulated by one human being. This sense is generalized from
`microcomputer', and is esp. used in contrast with `macro-' (the
corresponding Greek prefix meaning `large'). 4. Local as opposed to global
(or {macro-}). Thus a hacker might say that buying a smaller car to reduce
pollution only solves a microproblem; the macroproblem of getting to work
might be better solved by using mass transit, moving to within walking
distance, or (best of all) telecommuting. microfloppies: n. 3.5-inch
floppies, as opposed to 5.25-inch {vanilla} or mini-floppies and the
now-obsolete 8-inch variety. This term may be headed for obsolescence as
5.25-inchers pass out of use, only to be revived if anybody floats a
sub-3-inch floppy standard. see {stiffy}, {minifloppies}. microfortnight: n.
About 1.2 sec. The VMS operating system has a lot of tuning parameters that
you can set with the SYSGEN utility, and one of these is TIMEPROMPTWAIT, the
time the system will wait for an operator to set the correct date and time at
boot if it realizes that the current value is bogus. This time is specified
in microfortnights! Multiple uses of the millifortnight (about 20 minutes)
and {nanofortnight} have also been reported. microLenat: /mi:-kroh-len'-*t/
n. see {bogosity}. microReid: /mi:'kroh-reed/ n. see {bogosity}. Microsloth
Windows: /mi:'kroh-sloth` win'dohz/ n. Hackerism for `Microsoft Windows', a
windowing system for the IBM-PC which is so limited by bug-for-bug
compatibility with {mess-dos} that it is agonizingly slow on anything less
than a fast 386. Compare {X}, {sun-stools}. microtape: /mi:'kroh-tayp/ n.
Occasionally used to mean a DECtape, as opposed to a {macrotape}. A DECtape
is a small reel, about 4 inches in diameter, of magnetic tape about an inch
wide. Unlike drivers for today's {macrotape}s, microtape drivers allow random
access to the data, and therefore could be used to support file systems and
even for swapping (this was generally done purely for {hack value}, as they
were far too slow for practical use). In their heyday they were used in
pretty much the same ways one would now use a floppy disk: as a small,
portable way to save and transport files and programs. Apparently the term
`microtape' was actually the official term used within DEC for these tapes
until someone coined the word `DECtape', which, of course, sounded sexier to
the {marketroid}s. middle-endian: adj. Not {big-endian} or {little-endian}.
Used of perverse byte orders such as 3-4-1-2 or 2-1-4-3, occasionally found
in the packed-decimal formats of minicomputer manufacturers who shall remain
nameless. see {NUXI problem}. milliLampson: /mil'*-lamp`sn/ n. A unit of
talking speed, abbreviated mL. Most people run about 200 milliLampsons.
Butler Lampson (a CS theorist and systems implementor highly regarded among
hackers) goes at 1000. A few people speak faster. This unit is sometimes used
to compare the (sometimes widely disparate) rates at which people can
generate ideas and actually emit them in speech. For example, noted computer
architect C. Gordon Bell (designer of the PDP-11) is said, with some awe, to
think at about 1200 mL but only talk at about 300; he is frequently reduced
to fragments of sentences as his mouth tries to keep up with his speeding
brain. minifloppies: n. 5.25-inch {vanilla} floppy disks, as opposed to
3.5-inch or {microfloppies} and the now-obsolescent 8-inch variety. At one
time, this term was a trademark of Shugart Associates for their SA-400
minifloppy drive. Nobody paid any attention. see {stiffy}.