 MIPS: /mips/ [acronym] n. 1. A measure of computing speed; formally,
`Million Instructions Per Second'; often rendered by hackers as `Meaningless
Indication of Processor Speed'. This joke expresses a nearly universal
attitude about the value of {benchmark} claims, said attitude being one of
the great cultural divides between hackers and {marketroid}s. 2. The
corporate name of a particular RISC-chip company; among other things, they
designed the processor chips used in DEC's 3100 workstation series. misbug:
/mis-buhg/ [MIT] n. An unintended property of a program that turns out to be
useful; something that should have been a {bug} but turns out to be a
{feature}. Usage: rare. Compare {green lightning}. misfeature: /mis-fee'chr/
or /mis'fee`chr/ n. A feature which eventually screws someone, possibly
because it is not adequate for a new situation which has evolved. It is not
the same as a bug because fixing it involves a gross philosophical change to
the structure of the system involved. A misfeature is different from a simple
unforeseen side effect; the term implies that the misfeature was actually
carefully planned to be that way, but future consequences or circumstances
just weren't predicted accurately. This is different from just not having
thought ahead about it at all. Often a former feature becomes a misfeature
because a tradeoff was made whose parameters subsequently changed (possibly
only in the judgment of the implementors). "Well, yeah, it's kind of a
misfeature that file names are limited to six characters, but the original
implementors wanted to save directory space and we're stuck with it for now."
Missed'em-five: n. Pejorative hackerism for AT&T System V UNIX, generally
used by {BSD} partisans in a bigoted mood (the term `SysVile' is also
encountered). see {software bloat}, {Berzerkeley}. miswart: /mis-wort/ [from
{wart} by analogy with {misbug}] n. A {feature} which appears to be a {wart}
but has been determined to be the {Right Thing}. For example, in some
versions of the {EMACS} text editor, the `transpose characters' command
exchanges the two characters on either side of the cursor on the screen,
*except* when the cursor is at the end of a line, in which case the two
characters before the cursor are exchanged. While this behavior is perhaps
surprising, and certainly inconsistent, it has been found through extensive
experimentation to be what most users want. This feature is a miswart. moby:
/moh'bee/ [MIT; seems to have been in use among model railroad fans years
ago. Derived from Melville's `Moby Dick' (some say from `Moby Pickle').] 1.
adj. Large, immense, complex, impressive. "A Saturn V rocket is a truly moby
frob." "Some MIT undergrads pulled off a moby hack at the Harvard-Yale game."
(see Appendix A). 2. n. obs. The maximum address space of a machine (see
below). For a 680[1234]0 or VAX or most modern 32-bit architectures, it is
4294967296 8-bit bytes. 3. A title of address (never of third-person
reference), usually used to show admiration, respect, and/or friendliness to
a competent hacker. "Greetings, moby Dave. How's that address-book thing for
the Mac going?" 4. adj. In backgammon, doubles on the dice, as in `moby
sixes', `moby ones', etc. Compare this with {bignum} (sense #2): double sixes
are both bignums and moby sixes, but moby ones are not bignums (the use of
`moby' to describe double ones is sarcastic). `Moby foo', `moby win', `moby
loss': standard emphatic forms. `Foby moo': a spoonerism due to Greenblatt.
This term entered hackerdom with the Fabritek 256K moby memory of the MIT-AI
machine. Thus, a moby is classically, 256K 36-bit words, the size of a PDP-10
moby (it had two). Back when address registers were narrow, the term was more
generally useful; because when a computer had virtual memory mapping, it
might actually have more physical memory attached to it than any one program
could access directly. One could then say "This computer has six mobies" to
mean that the ratio of physical memory to address space is six, without
having to say specifically how much memory there actually is. That in turn
implied that the computer could timeshare six `full-sized' programs without
having to swap programs between memory and disk. Nowadays the low cost of
processor logic means that registers are typically wider than the most memory
you can cram onto a machine, so most systems have much *less* than 1
theoretical `native' moby of core. Also, more modern memory-management
techniques make the `moby count' less significant. However, there is one
series of popular chips for which the term could stand to be revived --- the
Intel 8088 and 80286 with their incredibly brain-damaged segmented-memory
design. On these, a `moby' would be the 1-megabyte address span of a
paragraph-plus-offset pair (by coincidence, a PDP-10 moby was exactly 1
megabyte of 9-bit bytes). mod: vt.,n. 1. Short for `modify' or
`modification'. Very commonly used --- in fact these latter terms are
considered markers that one is being formal. The plural `mods' is used esp.
with reference to bug fixes or minor design changes in hardware or software,
most esp. with respect to patch sets or a {diff}. mode: n. A general state,
usually used with an adjective describing the state. Use of the word "mode"
rather than "state" implies that the state is extended over time, and
probably also that some activity characteristic of that state is being
carried out. "No time to hack; I'm in thesis mode." Usage: in its jargon
sense, `mode' is most often said of people, though it is sometimes applied to
programs and inanimate objects. "The E editor normally uses a display
terminal, but if you're on a TTY it will switch to non-display mode." This
term is normally used in a technical sense to describe the state of a
program. Extended usage --- for example, to describe people --- is definitely
slang. In particular, see {hack mode}, {day mode}, {night mode}, {demo mode},
{fireworks mode}, and {yoyo mode}; also {talk mode}. One also often hears the
verbs `enable' and `disable' used in connection with slang modes. Thus, for
example, a sillier way of saying "I'm going to crash" is "I'm going to enable
crash mode now." One might also hear a request to "disable flame mode,
please". mode bit: n. A {flag}, usually in hardware, that selects between two
(usually quite different) modes of operation. The connotations are different
from {flag} bit in that mode bits are mainly written during a boot or set-up
phase, are seldom read, and seldom change over the lifetime of an ordinary
program. The classic example was the EBCDIC-vs.-ASCII bit 12 of the Program
Status Word of the IBM 360. Another was the bit on a PDP-12 that controlled
whether it ran the PDP-8 or LINC instruction set. modulo: /mod'y@-low/ prep.
Except for. From mathematical terminology: one can consider saying that 4 =
22 except for the 9s (4=22 mod 9) (the precise meaning is a bit more
complicated, but that's the idea). "Well, LISP seems to work okay now, modulo
that {GC} bug." "I feel fine today modulo a slight headache." molly-guard:
[University of Illinois] n. A shield to prevent tripping of some {Big Red
Switch} by clumsy or ignorant hands. Originally used of some plexiglass
covers improvised for the BRS on an IBM 4341 after a programmer's toddler
daughter (named Molly) frobbed it twice in one day. Later generalized to
covers over stop/reset switches on disk drives and networking equipment.
Mongolian Hordes technique: n. Development by {gang bang}; compare the
Sixties counterculture expression `Mongolian clusterfuck' for a public orgy.
Implies that large numbers of inexperienced programmers are being put on a
job better performed by a few skilled ones. Also called `Chinese Army
technique'. monkey up: vt. To hack together hardware for a particular task,
especially a one-shot job. Connotes an extremely {crufty} and consciously
temporary solution. monstrosity: 1. n. A ridiculously {elephantine} program
or system, esp. one which is buggy or only marginally functional. 2. The
quality of being monstrous (see `Peculiar nouns' in the discussion of
jargonification). see also {baroque}. Moof: /moof/ [MAC users] n. The Moof or
`dogcow' is a semi-legendary creature that lurks in the depths of the
Macintosh Technical Notes hypercard stack V3.1; specifically, the full story
of the dogcow is told in technical note #31 (the particular Moof illustrated
is properly named `Clarus'). Option-shift-click will cause it to emit a
characteristic `Moof!' or `!fooM' sound. *Getting* to tech note #31 is the
hard part; to discover how to do that, one must needs examine the stack
script with a hackerly eye. Clue: {rot13} is involved. A dogcow also appears
if you choose `Page Setup...' with a LaserWriter selected and click on the
`Options' button. Moore's Law: /morz law/ prov. The observation that the
logic density of silicon integrated circuits has closely followed the curve
(bits per inch ^ 2) = 2 ^ (n - 1962); that is, the amount of information
storable in one square inch of silicon has roughly doubled yearly every year
since the technology was invented. moria: /mor'ee-@/ n. Like {nethack} and
{rogue}, one of the large PD Dungeons-and-Dragons-like simulation games,
available for a wide range of machines and operating systems. Extremely
addictive and a major consumer of time better used for hacking.