 MOTSS: /motss/ or /em-oh-tee-ess-ess/ [from the 1970 U.S. census forms via
USENET, Member Of The Same Sex] n. Esp. one considered as a possible sexual
partner, e.g. by a gay male or lesbian. The gay-issues newsgroup on USENET is
called `soc.motss'. see {MOTOS} and {MOTAS}, which derive from it. Also see
{SO}. mouse ahead: vi. Point-and-click analog of `type ahead'. To manipulate
a computer's pointing device (almost always a mouse in this usage, but not
necessarily) and its selection or command buttons before a computer program
is ready to accept such input, in anticipation of the program accepting the
input. Handling this properly is rare, but it can help make a {WIMP
environment} much more usable, assuming they are familiar with the behavior
of the user interface. mouse around: vi. To explore public portions of a
large system, esp. a network such as Internet via {FTP} or {TELNET}, looking
for interesting stuff to {snarf}. mouse belt: n. see {rat belt}. mouse
droppings: [MSDOS] n. Pixels (usually single) which are not properly restored
when the mouse pointer moves away from a particular location on the screen,
producing the appearance that the mouse pointer has left behind droppings.
The major causes for this problem are programs which write to the screen
memory corresponding to the mouse pointer's current location without hiding
the mouse pointer first and mouse drivers which do not quite support the
graphics mode in use. mouse elbow: n. A tennis-elbow-like fatigue syndrome
resulting from excessive use of a {WIMP environment}. Similarly, `mouse
shoulder'; GLS reports that he used to get this a lot before he taught
himself to be ambimoustrous. mouso: /mow'soh/ n. [by analogy with `typo'] An
error in mouse usage resulting in an inappropriate selection or graphic
garbage on the screen. Compare {thinko}, {braino}.