 MS-DOS:: /M-S-dos/ [MicroSoft Disk Operating System] n. A {clone} of
{{CP/M}} for the 8088 crufted together in 6 weeks by hacker Tim Paterson, who
is said to have regretted it ever since. Numerous features, including vaguely
UNIX-like but rather broken support for subdirectories, I/O redirection, and
pipelines, were hacked into 2.0 and subsequent versions; as a result, there
are two or more incompatible versions of many system calls, and MS-DOS
programmers can never agree on basic things like what character to use as an
option switch or whether to be case-sensitive. The resulting mess is now the
highest-unit-volume OS in history. Often known simply as DOS, which annoys
people familiar with other similarly abbreviated operating systems (the name
goes back to the mid-1960s, when it was attached to IBM's first disk
operating system for the 360). Some people like to pronounce DOS like "dose",
as in "I don't work on dose, man!", or to compare it to a dose of
brain-damaging drugs (a slogan button in wide circulation among hackers
exhorts: "MS-DOS: Just say No!"). see {mess-dos}, {ill-behaved}. mu: /moo/
The correct answer to the classic trick question "Have you stopped beating
your wife yet?". Assuming that you have no wife or you have never beaten your
wife, the answer "yes" is wrong because it implies that you used to beat your
wife and then stopped, but "no" is worse because it suggests that you have
one and are still beating her. According to various Discordians and Douglas
Hofstadter (see the Bibliography), the correct answer is usually "mu", a
Japanese word alleged to mean "Your question cannot be answered because it
depends on incorrect assumptions". Hackers tend to be sensitive to logical
inadequacies in language, and many have adopted this suggestion with
enthusiasm. The word `mu' is actually from Chinese, meaning `nothing'; it is
used in mainstream Japanese in that sense, but native speakers do not
recognize the Discordian question-denying use. It almost certainly derives
from overgeneralization of the answer in the following well-known Rinzei Zen
teaching riddle: A monk asked Joshu, "Does a dog have the Buddha nature?"
Joshu retorted, "Mu!" see also {has the X nature}, {AI Koans}, and Douglas
Hofstadter's `G"odel, Escher, Bach' (pointer in the Bibliography).