 MUD: /muhd/ [acronym, Multi-User Dungeon; alt. Multi-User Dimension] 1. n. A
class of {virtual reality} experiments accessible via the Internet. These are
real-time chat forums with structure; they have multiple `locations' like an
adventure game, and may include combat, traps, puzzles, magic, a simple
economic system, and the capability for characters to build more structure
onto the database that represents the existing world. 2. vi. To play a MUD
(see {hack-and-slay}). The acronym MUD is often lowercased and/or verbed;
thus, one may speak of `going mudding', etc. Historically, MUDs (and their
more recent progeny with names of MU- form) derive from an AI experiment by
Richard Bartle and Roy Trubshaw on the University of Essex's DEC-10 in the
early 1980s; descendants of that game still exist today (see {BartleMUD}).
The title `MUD' is still trademarked to the commercial MUD run by Bartle on
British Telecom (the motto: "You haven't *lived* 'til you've *died* on
MUD!"); however, this did not stop students on the European academic networks
from copying and improving on the MUD concept, from which sprung several new
MUDs (VAXMUD, AberMUD, LPMUD). Many of these had associated bulletin-board
systems for social interaction. Because USENET feeds have been spotty and
difficult to get in the U.K. and the British JANET network doesn't support
{FTP} or remote login via telnet, the MUDs became major foci of hackish
social interaction there. AberMUD and other variants crossed the Atlantic
around 1988 and quickly gained popularity in the U.S.; they became nuclei for
large hacker communities with only loose ties to traditional hackerdom (some
observers see parallels with the growth of USENET in the early 1980s). The
second wave of MUDs (TinyMUD and variants) tended to emphasize social
interaction, puzzles, and cooperative world-building as opposed to combat and
competition. In 1991, over 50% of MUD sites are of a third major variety,
LPMUD, which synthesizes the combat/puzzle aspects of AberMUD and older
systems with the extensibility of TinyMud. The trend toward greater
programmability and flexibility will doubtless continue. The state of the art
in MUD design is still moving very rapidly, with new simulation designs
appearing (seemingly) every month. There is now (early 1991) a move afoot to
deprecate the term {MUD} itself, as newer designs exhibit an exploding
variety of names corresponding to the different simulation styles being
explored. see also {BartleMUD}, {berserking}, {bonk/oif}, {brand brand
brand}, {FOD}, {hack-and-slay}, {link-dead}, {mudhead}, {posing}, {talk
mode}, {tinycrud}. mudhead: n. Commonly used to refer to a {MUD} player who
sleeps, breathes, and eats MUD. Mudheads have been known to fail their
degrees, drop out, etc., with the consolation, however, that they made wizard
level. When encountered in person, all a mudhead will talk about is two
topics: the tactic, character, or wizard that is supposedly always unfairly
stopping him/her from becoming a wizard or beating a favorite MUD, and the
MUD he or she is writing or going to write because all existing MUDs are so
dreadful! see also {wannabee}. multician: /muhl-ti'shn/ [coined at Honeywell,
ca. 1970] n. Competent user of {{Multics}}. Perhaps oddly, no one has ever
promoted the analogous `Unician'. Multics:: /muhl'tiks/ n. [from "MULTiplexed
Information and Computing Service"] An early (late 1960s) timesharing
operating system co-designed by a consortium including MIT, GE, and Bell
Laboratories. Very innovative for its time --- among other things, it
introduced the idea of treating all devices uniformly as special files. All
the members but GE eventually pulled out after determining that
{second-system effect} had bloated Multics to the point of practical
unusability (the `lean' predecessor in question was {CTSS}). Honeywell
commercialized Multics after buying out GE's computer group, but it was never
very successful (among other things, on some versions one was commonly
required to enter a password to log out). One of the developers left in the
lurch by the project's breakup was Ken Thompson, a circumstance which led
directly to the birth of {{UNIX}}. For this and other reasons, aspects of the
Multics design remain a topic of occasional debate among hackers. see also
{brain-damaged} and {GCOS}. multitask: n. Often used of humans in the same
meaning it has for computers, to describe a person doing several things at
once (but see {thrash}). The term `multiplex', from communications technology
(meaning to handle more than one channel at the same time), is used
similarly. mumblage: /muhm'bl*j/ n. The topic of one's mumbling (see
{mumble}). "All that mumblage" is used like "all that stuff" when it is not
quite clear how the subject of discussion works, or like "all that crap" when
`mumble' is being used as an implicit replacement for pejoratives. mumble:
interj. 1. Said when the correct response is too complicated to enunciate, or
the speaker has not thought it out. Often prefaces a longer answer, or
indicates a general reluctance to get into a long discussion. "Don't you
think that we could improve LISP performance by using a hybrid
reference-count transaction garbage collector, if the cache is big enough and
there are some extra cache bits for the microcode to use?" "Well, mumble ...
I'll have to think about it." 2. Sometimes used as an expression of
disagreement. "I think we should buy a {VAX}." "Mumble!" Common variant:
`mumble frotz' (see {frotz}; interestingly, one does not say `mumble
frobnitz' even though `frotz' is short for `frobnitz'). 3. Yet another
metasyntactic variable, like {foo}. 4. When used as a question ("Mumble?")
means "I didn't understand you". 5. Sometimes used in `public' contexts
on-line as a placefiller for things one is barred from giving details about.
For example, a poster with pre-released hardware in his machine might say
"Yup, my machine now has an extra 16M of memory, thanks to the card I'm
testing for Mumbleco." munch: [often confused with {mung}, q.v.] vt. To
transform information in a serial fashion, often requiring large amounts of
computation. To trace down a data structure. Related to {crunch} and nearly
synonymous with {grovel}, but connotes less pain. munching: n. Exploration of
security holes of someone else's computer for thrills, notoriety, or to annoy
the system manager. Compare {cracker}. see also {hacked off}. munching
squares: n. A {display hack} dating back to the PDP-1 (ca. 1962, reportedly
discovered by Jackson Wright), which employs a trivial computation
(repeatedly plotting the graph Y = X XOR T for successive values of T --- see
{HAKMEM} items 146--148) to produce an impressive display of moving and
growing squares that devour the screen. The initial value of T is treated as
a parameter, which, when well-chosen, can produce amazing effects. Some of
these, later (re)discovered on the LISP machine, have been christened
`munching triangles' (try AND for XOR and toggling points instead of plotting
them), `munching w's', and `munching mazes'. More generally, suppose a
graphics program produces an impressive and ever-changing display of some
basic form, foo, on a display terminal, and does it using a relatively simple
program; then the program (or the resulting display) is likely to be referred
to as `munching foos' (this is a good example of the use of the word {foo} as
a metasyntactic variable). munchkin: /muhnch'kin/ [from the squeaky-voiced
little people in L. Frank Baum's `The Wizard of Oz'] n. A teenage-or-younger
micro enthusiast hacking BASIC or something else equally constricted. A term
of mild derision --- munchkins are annoying but some grow up to be hackers
after passing through a {larval stage}. The term {urchin} is also used. see
also {wannabee}, {bitty box}. mundane: [from SF fandom] n. 1. A person who is
not in science fiction fandom. 2. A person who is not in the computer
industry. In this sense, most often an adjectival modifier as in "in my
mundane life...." see also {Real World}. mung: /muhng/ alt. `munge' /muhnj/
[in 1960 at MIT, `Mash Until No Good'; sometime after that the derivation
from the {{recursive acronym}} `Mung Until No Good' became standard] vt. 1.
To make changes to a file, esp. large-scale and irrevocable changes. see
{BLT}. 2. To destroy, usually accidentally, occasionally maliciously. The
system only mungs things maliciously; this is a consequence of {Finagle's
Law}. see {scribble}, {mangle}, {trash}, {nuke}. Reports from {USENET}
suggest that the pronunciation /muhnj/ is now usual in speech, but the
spelling `mung' is still common in program comments (compare the widespread
confusion over the proper spelling of {kluge}). 3. The kind of beans of which
the sprouts are used in Chinese food. (That's their real name! Mung beans!
Really!) Murphy's Law: prov. The correct, *original* Murphy's Law reads: "If
there are two or more ways to do something, and one of those ways can result
in a catastrophe, then someone will do it." This is a principle of defensive
design, cited here because it is usually given in mutant forms less
descriptive of the challenges of design for lusers. For example, you don't
make a two-pin plug symmetrical and then label it `THIS WAY UP'; if it
matters which way it is plugged in, then you make the design asymmetrical
(see also the anecdote under {magic smoke}). Edward A. Murphy, Jr. was one of
the engineers on the rocket-sled experiments that were done by the U.S. Air
Force in 1949 to test human acceleration tolerances. One experiment involved
a set of 16 accelerometers mounted to different parts of the subject's body.
There were two ways each sensor could be glued to its mount, and somebody
methodically installed all 16 the wrong way around. Murphy then made the
original form of his pronouncement, which the test subject (Major John Paul
Stapp) quoted at a news conference a few days later. Within months `Murphy's
Law' had spread to various technical cultures connected to aerospace
engineering. Before too many years had gone by variants had passed into the
popular imagination, changing as they went. Most of these are variants on
"Anything that can go wrong, will"; this is sometimes referred to as
{Finagle's Law}. The memetic drift apparent in these mutants clearly
demonstrates Murphy's Law acting on itself! Music:: n. A common
extracurricular interest of hackers (compare {{science-fiction fandom}},
{{oriental food}}; see also {filk}). Hackish folklore has long claimed that
musical and programming abilities are closely related, and there has been at
least one large-scale statistical study that supports this. Hackers, as a
rule, like music and often develop musical appreciation in unusual and
interesting directions. Folk music is very big in hacker circles; so is
electronic music, and the sort of elaborate instrumental jazz/rock that used
to be called `progressive' and isn't recorded much any more. The hacker's
musical range tends to be wide; many can listen with equal appreciation to
(say) Talking Heads, Yes, Gentle Giant, Spirogyra, Scott Joplin, Tangerine
Dream, King Sunny Ade, The Pretenders, or Bach's Brandenburg Concerti. It is
also apparently true that hackerdom includes a much higher concentration of
talented amateur musicians than one would expect from a similar-sized control
group of {mundane} types. mutter: vt. To quietly enter a command not meant
for the ears, eyes, or fingers of ordinary mortals. Often used in `mutter an
{incantation}'. see also {wizard}. = N = ===== N: /N/ quant. 1. A large and
indeterminate number of objects: "There were N bugs in that crock!" Also used
in its original sense of a variable name: "This crock has N bugs, as N goes
to infinity." (The true number of bugs is always at least N + 1.) 2. A
variable whose value is inherited from the current context. For example, when
a meal is being ordered at a restaurant, N may be understood to mean however
many people there are at the table. From the remark "We'd like to order N
wonton soups and a family dinner for N - 1" you can deduce that one person at
the table wants to eat only soup, even though you don't know how many people
there are (see {great-wall}). 3. `Nth': adj. The ordinal counterpart of N,
senses #1 and #2. "Now for the Nth and last time..." In the specific context
"Nth-year grad student", N is generally assumed to be at least 4, and is
usually 5 or more (see {tenured graduate student}). see also {{random
numbers}}, {two-to-the-n}. nailed to the wall: [like a trophy] adj. Said of a
bug finally eliminated after protracted, and even heroic, effort. nailing
jelly: vi. see {like nailing jelly to a tree}. na"ive: adj. Untutored in the
perversities of some particular program or system; one who still tries to do
things in an intuitive way, rather than the right way (in really good designs
these coincide, but most designs aren't `really good' in the appropriate
sense). This is completely unrelated to general maturity or competence, or
even competence at any other specific program. It is a sad commentary on the
primitive state of computing that the natural opposite of this term is often
claimed to be `experienced user' but is really more like `cynical user'.
na"ive user: n. A {luser}. Tends to imply someone who is ignorant mainly
owing to inexperience. When this is applied to someone who *has* experience,
there is a definite implication of stupidity.