 :Multics: /muhlÂ´tiks/, n. [from "MULTiplexed Information and Computing
Service"] An early timesharing {operating system} co-designed by a consortium
including MIT, GE, and Bell Laboratories as a successor to {CTSS}. The design
was first presented in 1965, planned for operation in 1967, first operational
in 1969, and took several more years to achieve respectable performance and
stability. Multics was very innovative for its time -- among other things, it
provided a hierarchical file system with access control on individual files
and introduced the idea of treating all devices uniformly as special files.
It was also the first OS to run on a symmetric multiprocessor, and the only
general-purpose system to be awarded a B2 security rating by the NSA (see
{Orange Book}). Bell Labs left the development effort in 1969 after judging
that {second-system effect} had bloated Multics to the point of practical
unusability. Honeywell commercialized Multics in 1972 after buying out GE's
computer group, but it was never very successful: at its peak in the 1980s,
there were between 75 and 100 Multics sites, each a multi-million dollar
mainframe. One of the former Multics developers from Bell Labs was Ken
Thompson, and {Unix} deliberately carried through and extended many of
Multics' design ideas; indeed, Thompson described the very name `Unix' as "a
weak pun on Multics". For this and other reasons, aspects of the Multics
design remain a topic of occasional debate among hackers. see also
{brain-damaged} and {GCOS}. MIT ended its development association with
Multics in 1977. Honeywell sold its computer business to Bull in the mid 80s,
and development on Multics was stopped in 1988. Four Multics sites were known
to be still in use as late as 1998, but the last one (a Canadian military
site) was decommissioned in November 2000. There is a Multics page at
http://www.stratus.com/pub/vos/multics/tvv/multics.html.