 :Murphy's Law: prov. The correct, _original_ Murphy's Law reads: "If there
are two or more ways to do something, and one of those ways can result in a
catastrophe, then someone will do it." This is a principle of defensive
design, cited here because it is usually given in mutant forms less
descriptive of the challenges of design for {luser}s. For example, you don't
make a two-pin plug symmetrical and then label it `THIS WAY UP'; if it
matters which way it is plugged in, then you make the design asymmetrical
(see also the anecdote under {magic smoke}). Edward A. Murphy, Jr. was one of
McDonnel-Douglas's quality-control engineers on the rocket-sled experiments
that were done by the U.S. Air Force in 1949 to test human acceleration
tolerances (USAF project MX981). One experiment involved a set of 16
accelerometers mounted to different parts of the subject's body. There were
two ways each sensor could be glued to its mount, and somebody methodically
installed all 16 in a replacement set the wrong way around. Murphy then made
the original form of his pronouncement, which the test subject (Major John
Paul Stapp) mis-quoted (apparently in the more general form "Whatever can go
wrong, _will_ go wrong) at a news conference a few days later. Within months
`Murphy's Law' had spread to various technical cultures connected to
aerospace engineering. Before too many years had gone by variants had passed
into the popular imagination, changing as they went. Most of these are
variants on "Anything that can go wrong, will"; this is more correctly
referred to as {Finagle's Law}. The memetic drift apparent in these mutants
clearly demonstrates Murphy's Law acting on itself!