 MUSIC n. A common extracurricular interest of hackers (compare
SCIENCE-FICTION FANDOM, ORIENTAL FOOD; see also <filk>). It is widely
believed among hackers that there is a substantial correlation between
whatever mysterious traits underlie hacking ability (on the one hand) and
musical talent and sensitivity (on the other). It is certainly the case that
hackers, as a rule, like music and often develop musical appreciation in
unusual and interesting directions. Folk music is very big in hacker circles;
so is the sort of elaborate instrumental jazz/rock that used to be called
`progressive' and isn't recorded much any more. Also, the hacker's musical
range tends to be wide; many can listen with equal appreciation to (say)
Talking Heads, Yes, Spirogyra, Scott Joplin, King Sunny Ade, The Pretenders,
or one of Bach's Brandenburg Concerti. It is also apparently true that
hackerdom includes a much higher concentration of talented amateur musicians
than one would expect from a similar-sized control group of <mundane> types.
<mutter> vt. To quietly enter a command not meant for the ears of ordinary
mortals. Frequently in `mutter an <incantation>'. {= N =} <N> /en/ adj. 1.
Some large and indeterminate number of objects; "There were N bugs in that
crock!"; also used in its original sense of a variable name. 2. An
arbitrarily large (and perhaps infinite) number; "This crock has N bugs, as N
goes to infinity". 3. A variable whose value is specified by the current
context. For example, when ordering a meal at a restaurant N may be
understood to mean however many people there are at the table. From the
remark "We'd like to order N wonton soups and a family dinner for N-1." you
can deduce that one person at the table wants to eat only soup, even though
you don't know how many people there are. A silly riddle: "How many computers
does it take to shift the bits in a register? N+1: N to hold all the bits
still, and one to shove the register over." 4. "Nth": adj. The ordinal
counterpart of N. "Now for the Nth and last time..." In the specific context
"Nth-year grad student", N is generally assumed to be at least 4, and is
usually 5 or more (see <tenured graduate student>). see also <random
numbers>, <two-to-the-n>. <nailed to the wall> [like a trophy] adj. Said of a
bug finally eliminated after protracted and even heroic effort. <naive> adj.
Untutored in the perversities of some particular program or system; one who
still tries to do things in an intuitive way, rather than the right way (in
really good designs these coincide, but most designs aren't `really good' in
the appropriate sense). This is completely unrelated to general maturity or
competence or even competence at any other program. It is a sad commentary on
the primitive state of computing that the natural opposite of this term often
claimed to be `experienced user' but is really more like `cynical user'.
<naive user> 1. n. A <luser>. Tends to imply someone who is ignorant mainly
due to experience; when applied to someone who "has" experience, there is a
definite implication of stupidity. <NAK> [from the ASCII mnemonic for
0010101] interj. 1. On-line joke answer to ACK? (see <ACK>) --- "I'm not
here". 2. On line answer to a request for chat --- "I'm not available". 3.
Used to politely interrupt someone to tell them you don't understand their
point or that they have suddenly stopped making sense. see <ACK>, sense #3.
"And then, after we recode the project in COBOL..." "Nak Nak Nak! I thought I
heard you say COBOL!" <nano-> [in measurement, a quantifier meaning * 10 ^
-9] pref. Smaller than <micro->, and used in the same rather loose and
connotative way. Thus, one has <nanotechnology> (coined by hacker Eric
Drexler) by analogy with "microtechnology"; and some machine architectures
have a "nanocode" level below "microcode". see also <pico->. See also
<nanoacre>. <nanoacre> /nan'o-ay`kr/ n. An areal unit (about 2mm.sq.) of real
estate on a VLSI chip. The term derives its amusement value from the fact
that VLSI nanoacres have costs in the same range as real acres once one
figures in design and fabrication-setup costs. <nanobot> /nan'oh-bot/ n. A
robot of microscopic proportions, presumably built by means of
<nanotechnology>. As yet, only used informally (and speculatively!). Also
sometimes called a "nanoagent". <nanocomputer> /nan'oh-k@m-pyoo'tr/ n. A
computer whose switching elements are molecular in size. Designs for
mechanical nanocomputers which use single-molecule sliding rods for their
logic have been proposed. The controller for a <nanobot> would be a
nanocomputer. <nanotechnology> /nan'-oh-tek-no`l@-ji/ n. A hypothetical
fabrication technology in which objects are designed and built with the
individual specification and placement of each separate atom. The first
unequivocal nano-fabrication experiments are taking place now (1990), for
example with the deposition of individual xenon atoms on a nickel substrate
to spell the logo of a certain very large computer company by two of its
physicists. Nanotechnology has been a hot topic in the hacker subculture ever
since the term was coined by K. Eric Drexler in his book `Engines of
Creation', where he predicted that nanotechnology could give rise to
replicating assemblers, permitting an exponential growth of productivity and
personal wealth. see also <blue goo>, <gray goo>, <nanobot>. <nastygram> n.
1. A protocol packet or item of email (the latter is also called a
"letterbomb") that takes advantage of misfeatures or security holes on the
target system to do untoward things. 2. Disapproving mail, esp. from a
net.god, pursuant to a violation of <netiquette>. Compare <shitogram>. 3. A
status report from an unhappy, and probably picky, customer. "What'd the
Germans say in today's nastygram?" 4. [deprecated] An error reply by mail
from a <daemon>; in particular, a <bounce message>. <Nathan Hale> n. An
asterisk (see also <splat>). Oh, you want an etymology? Notionally from "I
regret that I have only one asterisk for my country", a misquote of the
famous remark uttered by Nathan Hale just before he was hanged. Hale was a
(failed) spy for the rebels in the American War of Independence. <neophilia>
/nee`oh-fil'-ee-uh/ n. The trait of being excited and pleased by novelty.
Common trait of most hackers, SF fans, and members of several other connected
leading-edge subcultures including the pro-technology `Whole-Earth' wing of
the ecology movement, space activists, theater people, the membership of
MENSA, and the <Discordian>/neo-pagan underground. All these groups overlap
heavily and (where evidence is available) seem to share characteristic hacker
tropisms for SF, MUSIC and ORIENTAL FOOD. <nethack> /net'hak/ n. see <hack>,
sense #12. <netiquette> /net'ee-ket, net'i-ket/ [portmanteau fr. "network
etiquette"] n. Conventions of politeness recognized on <USENET>, such as:
avoidance of cross-posting to inappropriate groups, or refraining from
commercial pluggery on the net. <neep-neep> /neep neep/ [onomatopoeic, from
New York SF fandom] n. One who is fascinated by computers. More general than
<hacker>, as it need not imply more skill than is required to boot games on a
PC. The gerund "neep-neeping" applies specifically to the long conversations
about computers that tend to develop in the corners at most SF-convention
parties. Fandom has a related proverb to the effect that "Hacking is a
conversational black hole!" <net.-> /net dot/ pref. [USENET] Prefix used to
describe people and events related to USENET. From the time before the <Great
Renaming>, when all non-local newsgroups had names beginning `net.'. Includes
<net.god>s, "net.goddesses" (various charismatic women with circles of
on-line admirers), "net.lurkers", (see <lurker>), "net.parties" (a synonym
for <boink> sense #2 (q.v.)) and many similar constructs. see also
<net.police>. <net.god> /net god/ n. Used to refer to anyone who satisfies
some combination of the following conditions: has been visible on USENET for
more than five years, ran one of the original backbone sites, moderated an
important newsgroup, wrote news software, or knows Gene, Mark, Rick, Mel,
Henry, Chuq, and Greg personally. see <demigod>. <net.police> n. Those USENET
readers who feel it is their responsibility to pounce on and <flame> any
posting which they regard as offensive, or in violation of their
understanding of <netiquette>. Generally used sarcastically or pejoratively.
Also spelled `net police'. see also <net.->, <code police>. <netrock> [IBM]
n. A <flame>; used esp. on VNET, IBM's internal corporate network. <network
address> n. (also "net address") As used by hackers, means an address on <the
network> (almost always a <bang path> or <Internet address>). An essential to
be taken seriously by hackers; in particular, persons or organizations
claiming to understand, work with, sell to, or recruit from among hackers
that *don't* display net addresses are quietly presumed to be clueless
poseurs and mentally flushed (see <flush>, sense #3). Hackers often put their
net addresses on their business cards and wear them prominently in contexts
where they expect to meet other hackers face-to-face (see also
SCIENCE-FICTION FANDOM). This is mostly functional, but is also a connotative
signal that one identifies with hackerdom (like lodge pins among Masons or
tie-dyed T-shirts among Grateful Dead fans). Net addresses are often used in
email text as a more concise substitute for personal names; indeed, hackers
may come to know each other quite well by network names without ever learning
each others' `legal' monikers. see also <sitename>. <network, the> n. 1. The
union of all the major noncommercial, academic and hacker-oriented networks
such as Internet, the old ARPANET, NSFnet, BITNET and the virtual UUCP and
<USENET> `networks', plus the corporate in-house networks that gate to them.
A site is generally considered `on the network' if it can be reached through
some combination of Internet-style (@-sign) and UUCP (bang-path) addresses.
see <bang path>, <Internet address>, <network address>. 2. A fictional
conspiracy of libertarian hacker-subversives and anti-authoritarian
monkeywrenchers described in Robert Anton Wilson's novel `Schrodinger's Cat',
to which many hackers have subsequently decided they belong (this is an
example of <ha ha only serious>). <New Jersey> [primarily Stanford/Silicon
Valley] adj. Pejorative term for the quality of being brain-damaged or of
poor design. It refers to the allegedly poor designs of such software as C,
C++, and UNIX (which originated at Bell Labs in New Jersey). "This compiler
bites the bag, but what can you expect from a compiler designed in New
Jersey?" see also <UNIX conspiracy>. <New Testament> n. [C programmers] The
second edition of K&R's `The C Programming Language' (Prentice-Hall 1988,
ISBN 0-13-110362-8), describing ANSI Standard C. see <K&R>. <newbie>
/n[y]oo'bee/ n. [orig. fr. British military & public-school slang contraction
of "new boy"] A USENET neophyte. This term originated in the <newsgroup>
"talk.bizarre" but is now in wide use. Criteria for being considered a newbie
vary wildly; a person can be called a newbie in one newsgroup while remaining
a respected participant in another. The label "newbie" is sometimes applied
as a serious insult, to a person who has been around USENET for a long time,
but who carefully hides all evidence of having a clue. see <BIFF>. <newgrp
wars> /n[y]oo'grp wohrz/ [USENET] n. Salvos of dueling `newgrp' and `rmgroup'
messages sometimes exchanged by persons on opposite sides of a dispute over
whether a <newsgroup> should be created netwide. These usually settle out
within a week or two as it becomes clear whether the group has a natural
constituency (usually, it doesn't). At times, especially in the completely
anarchic "alt" hierarchy, the names of newsgroups themselves become a form of
comment or humor; cf. the spinoff of "alt.swedish.chef.bork.bork.bork" from
"alt.tv.muppets" in early 1990, or any number of specialized abuse groups
named after particularly notorious <flamer>s. <newline> /n[y]oo'lien/ n. 1.
[UNIX] The ASCII LF character (0001010), used under <UNIX> as a text line
terminator. A Bell-Labs-ism rather than a Berkeleyism; interestingly (and
unusually for UNIX jargon) it is said originally to have been an IBM usage
(though it appears in early ASCII standards, it never caught in in the
general computing world before UNIX). 2. More generally, any magic character
sequence or operation (like Pascal's writeln() function) required to
terminate a text record. see <crlf>, <terpri>. <newsfroup> /n[y]oos'froop/
[USENET] n. Silly written-only synonym for <newsgroup>, originated as a typo
but now in regular use on USENET'S talk.bizarre and other
not-real-tightly-wrapped groups. <newsgroup> [USENET] n. One of USENET's
large collection of topic groups. Among the best-known are "comp.lang.c" (the
C-language forum), "comp.unix.internals" (for UNIX wizards),
"rec.arts.sf-lovers" (for science-fiction fans) and "talk.politics.misc"
(miscellaneous political discussions and <flamage>). <nickle> [From "nickel",
common name for the US 5-cent coin] n. A <nybble> + 1; 5 bits. Reported among
developers for Mattel's GI 1600 (the Intellivision games processor), a chip
with 16-bit-wide RAM but 10-bit-wide ROM. see also <deckle>. <night mode> n.
see <phase> (of people). <Nightmare File System> n. Pejorative hackerism for
Sun's Network File System (NFS). In any nontrivial network of Suns where
there is a lot of NFS cross-mounting, when one Sun goes down, the others
freeze up because of this behavior: Some machine pings the dead one and gets
no response, and that machine continues to ping the dead one, causing it to
appear dead to some messages. Then another machine pings either the really
dead machine or the sometimes dead machine, and this machine enters this
mode. The first machine to discover the dead one is now both trying to ping
the dead one and respond to the second machine, so it is dead more often.
This snowballs very fast and soon the entire set of machine is frozen. "It's
that damned nightmare file system again." see also <broadcast storm>. <nil>
[from LISP terminology for `false'] No. Usage: used in reply to a question,
particularly one asked using the `-P' convention. see <T>. <NMI> n.
Non-Maskable Interrupt. see <priority interrupt>. <noddy> [Great Britain;
from the children's books] adj. Small and unuseful, but demonstrating a
point. Noddy programs are often written when learning a new language or
system. The archetypal noddy program is <hello world>. Noddy code may be used
to demonstrate a feature or bug of a compiler, but would not be used in a
real program. May be used of real hardware or software to imply that it isn't
worth using. "This editor's a bit noddy." <NOMEX underwear> [USENET] n. Syn.
<asbestos longjohns>, used mostly in auto related mailing lists and
newsgroups. NOMEX underwear is an actual product available on the racing
equipment market, used as a fire retardant measure and required in some
racing series. <non-optimal solution> n. (also "sub-optimal solution") An
astoundingly stupid way to do something. This term is generally used in
deadpan sarcasm, as its impact is greatest when the person speaking looks
completely serious. Compare <stunning>. see also <Bad Thing>. <nonlinear>
adj. [scientific computation] Behaving in an erratic and unpredictable
fashion. When used to describe the behavior of a machine or program, it
suggests that said machine or program is being forced to run far outside of
design specifications. This behavior may be induced by unreasonable inputs,
or may be triggered when a more mundane bug sends the computation far away
from its expected course. When describing the behavior of a person, suggests
a tantrum or a <flame>. "When you talk to Bob, don't mention the drug problem
or he'll go nonlinear for hours." <nontrivial> adj. Requiring real thought or
significant computing power. Often used as an understated way of saying that
a problem is quite difficult. The preferred emphatic form is "decidedly
nontrivial". see <trivial>, <uninteresting>, <interesting>. <no-op> /noh-op/
alt. NOP (nop) [no operation] n. 1. A machine instruction that does nothing
(sometimes used in assembler-level programming as filler for data areas). 2.
A person who contributes nothing to a project, or has nothing going on
upstairs, or both. As in "he's a no-op.". 3. Any operation or sequence of
operations with no effect, such as circling the block without finding a
parking space, or putting money into a vending machine and having it fall
immediately into the coin-return box, or asking someone for help and being
told to go away. "Oh well, that was a no-op." <notwork> n. A network, when
it's acting <flaky> or <down>. Compare <nyetwork>. Orig. referred to a
particular perioud of flakiness on IBM's VNET corporate network, c.1988.
<NP-> /en pee/ pref. Extremely. Used to modify adjectives describing a level
or quality of difficulty. "Getting this algorithm to perform correctly in
every case is NP-annoying." This is generalized from the computer science
terms "NP-hard" and "NP-complete". NP is the set of
Nondeterministic-Polynomial algorithms, those which can be completed by a
nondeterministic finite state machine in an amount of time that is a
polynomial function of the size of the input. <NSA line eater> n. The
mythical NSA (National Security Agency) trawling program sometimes assumed to
be reading <USENET> for the U.S. Government's spooks. Some netters put loaded
phrases like `Uzi' `nuclear materials' `Palestine' `cocaine' and
`assassination' in their <sig block>s in an attempt to confuse and overload
the creature. The <GNU> version of <EMACS> actually has a command that
randomly generates a lot of words like that into your edited text. <nuke> vt.
1. To intentionally delete the entire contents of a given directory or
storage volume. "On UNIX, `rm -r /usr' will nuke everything in the usr
filesystem." Never used for accidental deletion. Oppose <blow away>. 2. Syn.
for <dike>, applied to smaller things such as files, features or code
sections. 3. Used of processes as well as files; frequently an alias for
`kill -9' on UNIX. <null device> n. A <logical> input/output device connected
to the <bit bucket>; when you write to it nothing happens, when you read from
it you get a zero-length record full of nothing. Useful for discarding
unwanted output or using interactive programs in a non-interactive way. see
</dev/null>. <numbers> [scientific computation] n. Results of a computation
that may not be physically significant, but at least indicate that the
program is running. May be used to placate management, grant sponsors, etc.
"Making numbers" means running a program because output --- any output, not
necessarily meaningful output --- is needed as a demonstration of progress.
see <pretty pictures>, <math-out>, <social science number>. <NUXI problem>
/nuk'see pro'blm/ n. This refers to the problem of transferring data between
machines with differing byte-order. The string `UNIX' might look like `NUXI'
on a machine with a different "byte sex" (i.e. when transferring data from a
little-endian to a big-endian or vice-versa). see also, <big-endian>,
<little-endian>, <swab>, and <bytesexual>. <nybble> /nib'l/ [from v. "nibble"
by analogy with "bite" => "byte"] n. Four bits; one hexadecimal digit; a
half-byte. Though `byte' is now accepted technical jargon found in
dictionaries, this useful relative is still slang. Compare <byte>, <crumb>,
<taste>, <dynner>, see also <bit>. Apparently this spelling is uncommon on
his side of the pond, as British orthography suggests the pronunciation
/niebl/. <nyetwork> [fr. Russian "nyet" = no] n. A network, when it's acting
<flaky> or <down>. Compare <notwork>. {= O =} <Ob-> /ob/ pref. Obligatory. A
piece of <netiquette> that acknowledges the author has been straying from the
newsgroup's charter. For example, if a posting in alt.sex has nothing
particularly to do with sex, the author may append `ObSex' (or `Obsex') and
toss off a question or vignette about some unusual erotic act. <obscure> adj.
Used in an exaggeration of its normal meaning, to imply a total lack of
comprehensibility. "The reason for that last crash is obscure." "The
`find(1)' command's syntax is obscure." The phrase <moderately obscure>
implies that it could be figured out but probably isn't worth the trouble.
<Obscure in the extreme> is a preferred emphatic form. <Obfuscated C Contest>
n. Annual contest run since 1984 over <the network> by Landon Curt Noll &
friends. The overall winner is he who produces the most unreadable, creative
and bizarre working C program; various other prizes are awarded at the
judges' whim. Given C's terse syntax and macro-preprocessor facilities, this
gives contestants a lot of maneuvering room. The winning programs often
manage to be simultaneously a) funny, b) breathtaking works of art, and c)
Horrible Examples of how *not* to code in C. This relatively short and sweet
entry might help convey the flavor of obfuscated C: /* * HELLO WORLD program
* by Jack Applin and Robert Heckendorn, 1985 */
main(v,c)char**c;{for(v[c++]="Hello, world!\n)";
(!!c)[*c]&&(v--||--c&&execlp(*c,*c,c[!!c]+!!c,!c));
**c=!c)write(!!*c,*c,!!**c);} see also <hello, world!>. <octal forty> /ok'tl
for'tee/ n. Hackish way of saying "I'm drawing a blank". Octal 40 is the
ASCII space character; by an odd concidence, "hex" 40 is the <EBCDIC> space
character. see <wall>. <off-by-one error> n. Exceedingly common error induced
in many ways, such as by starting at 0 when you should have started at 1 or
vice versa, or by writing < N instead of <= N or vice-versa. Also applied to
giving an object to the person next to the one who should have gotten it.
Often confused with <fencepost error>, which is properly a particular subtype
of it. <off the trolley> adj. Describes the behavior of a program which
malfunctions but doesn't actually <crash> or get halted by the operating
system. see <glitch>, <bug>, <deep space>. <offline> adv. Not now or not
here. Example: "Let's take this discussion offline." Specifically used on
<USENET> to suggest that a discussion be taken off a public newsgroup to
email. <old fart> n. Tribal elder. A title self-assumed with remarkable
frequency by (esp.) USENETters who have been programming for more than about
twenty five years; frequently appears in SIGs attached to jargon file
contributions of great archeological significance. This is a term of insult
in second or third person but pride in first person. <Old Testament> n. [C
programmers] The first edition of the book describing <Classic C>; see <K&R>.
<ONE BELL SYSTEM (IT WORKS)> This was the output from the old Unix V6 `1'
command. The `1' command also contained a random number generator which gave
it a one in ten chance of recursively executing itself. <one-line fix> n.
Often used sarcastically used of a change to a program that is thought to be
trivial or insignificant right up to the moment it crashes the system.
Usually `cured' by another one-line fix. see also <I didn't change
anything!>. <one-liner wars> n. Popular game among hackers who code in the
language APL (see <write-only language>). The objective is to see who can
code the most interesting and/or useful routine in one line of operators
chosen from APL's exceedingly <hairy> primitive set. [This is not *quite* as
silly as it sounds; I myself have coded one-line <life> programs and once
uttered a one-liner that performed lexical analysis of its input string
followed by a dictionary lookup for good measure --- ESR] It has been
reported that a similar amusement was practiced among <TECO> hackers.
<ooblick> /oo'blik/ [from Dr. Seuss' `Bartholomew and the Ooblick'] n. A
bizarre semi-liquid sludge made from cornstarch and water. Enjoyed among
hackers who make batches for playtime at parties for its amusing and
extremely non-Newtonian behavior; it pours and splatters, but resists rapid
motion like a solid and will even crack when hit by a hammer. Often found
near lasers. <open> n. Abbreviation for `open (or left) parenthesis', used
when necessary to eliminate oral ambiguity. To read aloud the LISP form
(DEFUN FOO (X) (PLUS X 1)) one might say: "Open def-fun foo, open eks close,
open, plus eks one, close close." see <close>. <open switch> [IBM, prob. fr.
railroading] n. An unresolved question, issue, or problem. <operating system>
n. (Often abbreviated `OS') The foundation software of a machine, of course;
that which schedules tasks, allocates storage, and presents a default
interface to the user between applications. The facilities the operating
system provides and its general design philosophy exert an extremely strong
influence on programming style and the technical culture that grows up around
a machine. Hacker folklore has been shaped primarily by the UNIX, ITS,
TOPS-10, TOPS-20/TWENEX, VMS, CP/M, MS-DOS, and MULTICS operating systems
(most importantly by ITS and UNIX). Each of these has its own entry, which
see. <Orange Book> n. The U.S. Government's standards document (Trusted
Computer System Evaluation Criteria, DOD standard 5200.28-STD, December,
1985) characterizing secure computing architectures, defining levels A1 (most
secure) through D (least). Stock UNIXes are roughly C2. see also <Red Book>,
<Blue Book>, <Green Book>, <Silver Book>, <Purple Book>, <White Book>,
<Pink-Shirt Book>, <Dragon Book>, <Aluminum Book>.