 A term of mild derision -- munchkins are annoying but some grow up to be
hackers after passing through a {larval stage}. The term {urchin} is also
used. see also {wannabee}, {bitty box}. :mundane: n. [from SF fandom] 1. A
person who is not in science fiction fandom. 2. A person who is not in the
computer industry. In this sense, most often an adjectival modifier as in "in
my mundane life...." see also {Real World}, {muggle}. :mung: /muhng/ vt. [in
1960 at MIT, `Mash Until No Good'; sometime after that the derivation from
the {{recursive acronym}} `Mung Until No Good' became standard; but see
{munge}] 1. To make changes to a file, esp. large-scale and irrevocable
changes. see {BLT}. 2. To destroy, usually accidentally, occasionally
maliciously. The system only mungs things maliciously; this is a consequence
of {Finagle's Law}. see {scribble}, {mangle}, {trash}, {nuke}. Reports from
{Usenet} suggest that the pronunciation /muhnj/ is now usual in speech, but
the spelling `mung' is still common in program comments (compare the
widespread confusion over the proper spelling of {kluge}). 3. In the wake of
the {spam} epidemics of the 1990s, mung is now commonly used to describe the
act of modifying an email address in a sig block in a way that human beings
can readily reverse but that will fool an {address harvester}. Example:
johnNOSPAMsmith@isp.net. 4. The kind of beans the sprouts of which are used
in Chinese food. (That's their real name! Mung beans! Really!) Like many
early hacker terms, this one seems to have originated at {TMRC}; it was
already in use there in 1958. Peter Samson (compiler of the original TMRC
lexicon) thinks it may originally have been onomatopoeic for the sound of a
relay spring (contact) being twanged. However, it is known that during the
World Wars, `mung' was U.S. army slang for the ersatz creamed chipped beef
better known as `SOS', and it seems quite likely that the word in fact goes
back to Scots-dialect {munge}. :munge: /muhnj/ vt. 1. [derogatory] To
imperfectly transform information. 2. A comprehensive rewrite of a routine,
data structure or the whole program. 3. To modify data in some way the
speaker doesn't need to go into right now or cannot describe succinctly
(compare {mumble}). 4. To add {spamblock} to an email address. This term is
often confused with {mung}, which probably was derived from it. However, it
also appears the word `munge' was in common use in Scotland in the 1940s, and
in Yorkshire in the 1950s, as a verb, meaning to munch up into a masticated
mess, and as a noun, meaning the result of munging something up (the parallel
with the {kluge}/{kludge} pair is amusing). The OED reports `munge' as an
archaic verb meaning "to wipe (a person's nose)". :Murphy's Law: prov. The
correct, _original_ Murphy's Law reads: "If there are two or more ways to do
something, and one of those ways can result in a catastrophe, then someone
will do it." This is a principle of defensive design, cited here because it
is usually given in mutant forms less descriptive of the challenges of design
for {luser}s. For example, you don't make a two-pin plug symmetrical and then
label it `THIS WAY UP'; if it matters which way it is plugged in, then you
make the design asymmetrical (see also the anecdote under {magic smoke}).
Edward A. Murphy, Jr. was one of the engineers on the rocket-sled experiments
that were done by the U.S. Air Force in 1949 to test human acceleration
tolerances (USAF project MX981). One experiment involved a set of 16
accelerometers mounted to different parts of the subject's body. There were
two ways each sensor could be glued to its mount, and somebody methodically
installed all 16 the wrong way around. Murphy then made the original form of
his pronouncement, which the test subject (Major John Paul Stapp) quoted at a
news conference a few days later. Within months `Murphy's Law' had spread to
various technical cultures connected to aerospace engineering. Before too
many years had gone by variants had passed into the popular imagination,
changing as they went. Most of these are variants on "Anything that can go
wrong, will"; this is correctly referred to as {Finagle's Law}. The memetic
drift apparent in these mutants clearly demonstrates Murphy's Law acting on
itself! :music:: n. A common extracurricular interest of hackers (compare
{{science-fiction fandom}}, {{oriental food}}; see also {filk}). Hackish
folklore has long claimed that musical and programming abilities are closely
related, and there has been at least one large-scale statistical study that
supports this. Hackers, as a rule, like music and often develop musical
appreciation in unusual and interesting directions. Folk music is very big in
hacker circles; so is electronic music, and the sort of elaborate
instrumental jazz/rock that used to be called `progressive' and isn't
recorded much any more. The hacker's musical range tends to be wide; many can
listen with equal appreciation to (say) Talking Heads, Yes, Gentle Giant, Pat
Metheny, Scott Joplin, Tangerine Dream, Dream Theater, King Sunny Ade, The
Pretenders, Screaming Trees, or the Brandenburg Concerti. It is also
apparently true that hackerdom includes a much higher concentration of
talented amateur musicians than one would expect from a similar-sized control
group of {mundane} types. :mutter: vt. To quietly enter a command not meant
for the ears, eyes, or fingers of ordinary mortals. Often used in `mutter an
{incantation}'. see also {wizard}. = N = ===== :N: /N/ quant. 1. A large and
indeterminate number of objects: "There were N bugs in that crock!" Also used
in its original sense of a variable name: "This crock has N bugs, as N goes
to infinity." (The true number of bugs is always at least N + 1; see
{Lubarsky's Law of Cybernetic Entomology}.) 2. A variable whose value is
inherited from the current context. For example, when a meal is being ordered
at a restaurant, N may be understood to mean however many people there are at
the table. From the remark "We'd like to order N wonton soups and a family
dinner for