 NAK: /nak/ [from the ASCII mnemonic for 0010101] interj. 1. On-line joke
answer to {ACK}?: "I'm not here." 2. On-line answer to a request for chat:
"I'm not available." 3. Used to politely interrupt someone to tell them you
don't understand their point or that they have suddenly stopped making sense.
see {ACK}, sense 3. "And then, after we recode the project in COBOL...."
"Nak, Nak, Nak! I thought I heard you say COBOL!" nano: /nan'oh/ [CMU: from
`nanosecond'] n. A brief period of time. "Be with you in a nano" means you
really will be free shortly, i.e., implies what mainstream people mean by "in
a jiffy" (whereas the hackish use of `jiffy' is quite different --- see
{jiffy}). nano-: [SI: the next quantifier below {micro-}; meaning * 10^{-9}]
pref. Smaller than {micro-}, and used in the same rather loose and
connotative way. Thus, one has {{nanotechnology}} (coined by hacker K. Eric
Drexler) by analogy with `microtechnology'; and a few machine architectures
have a `nanocode' level below `microcode'. Tom Duff at Bell Labs has also
pointed out that "Pi seconds is a nanocentury". see also {{quantifiers}},
{pico-}, {nanoacre}, {nanobot}, {nanocomputer}, {nanofortnight}. nanoacre:
/nan'oh-ay`kr/ n. A unit (about 2 mm square) of real estate on a VLSI chip.
The term gets its giggle value from the fact that VLSI nanoacres have costs
in the same range as real acres once one figures in design and
fabrication-setup costs. nanobot: /nan'oh-bot/ n. A robot of microscopic
proportions, presumably built by means of {{nanotechnology}}. As yet, only
used informally (and speculatively!). Also called a `nanoagent'.
nanocomputer: /nan'oh-k*m-pyoo'tr/ n. A computer whose switching elements are
molecular in size. Designs for mechanical nanocomputers which use
single-molecule sliding rods for their logic have been proposed. The
controller for a {nanobot} would be a nanocomputer. nanofortnight: [Adelaide
University] n. 1 fortnight * 10^-9, or about 1.2 msec. This unit was used
largely by students doing undergraduate practicals. see {microfortnight},
{attoparsec}, and {micro-}. nanotechnology:: /nan'-oh-tek-no`l*-jee/ n. A
hypothetical fabrication technology in which objects are designed and built
with the individual specification and placement of each separate atom. The
first unequivocal nanofabrication experiments are taking place now (1990),
for example with the deposition of individual xenon atoms on a nickel
substrate to spell the logo of a certain very large computer company.
Nanotechnology has been a hot topic in the hacker subculture ever since the
term was coined by K. Eric Drexler in his book `Engines of Creation', where
he predicted that nanotechnology could give rise to replicating assemblers,
permitting an exponential growth of productivity and personal wealth. see
also {blue goo}, {gray goo}, {nanobot}. nastygram: /nas'tee-gram/ n. 1. A
protocol packet or item of email (the latter is also called a {letterbomb})
that takes advantage of misfeatures or security holes on the target system to
do untoward things. 2. Disapproving mail, esp. from a {net.god}, pursuant to
a violation of {netiquette} or a complaint about failure to correct some
mail- or news-transmission problem. Compare {shitogram}. 3. A status report
from an unhappy, and probably picky, customer. "What'd Corporate say in
today's nastygram?" 4. [deprecated] An error reply by mail from a {daemon};
in particular, a {bounce message}. Nathan Hale: n. An asterisk (see also
{splat}, {{ASCII}}). Oh, you want an etymology? Notionally, from "I regret
that I have only one asterisk for my country!", a misquote of the famous
remark uttered by Nathan Hale just before he was hanged. Hale was a (failed)
spy for the rebels in the American War of Independence. nature: n. see {has
the X nature}. neat hack: n. 1. A clever technique. 2. A brilliant practical
joke, where neatness is correlated with cleverness, harmlessness, and
surprise value. Example: the Caltech Rose Bowl card display switch (see
appendix A). see {hack}. neep-neep: /neep neep/ [onomatopoeic, from New York
SF fandom] n. One who is fascinated by computers. More general than {hacker},
as it need not imply more skill than is required to boot games on a PC. The
derived noun `neep-neeping' applies specifically to the long conversations
about computers that tend to develop in the corners at most SF-convention
parties. Fandom has a related proverb to the effect that "Hacking is a
conversational black hole!". neophilia: /nee`oh-fil'-ee-*/ n. The trait of
being excited and pleased by novelty. Common trait of most hackers, SF fans,
and members of several other connected leading-edge subcultures, including
the pro-technology `Whole Earth' wing of the ecology movement, space
activists, many members of Mensa, and the Discordian/neo-pagan underground.
All these groups overlap heavily and (where evidence is available) seem to
share characteristic hacker tropisms for science fiction, {{Music}}, and
{{oriental food}}. net.-: /net dot/ pref. [USENET] Prefix used to describe
people and events related to USENET. From the time before the {Great
Renaming}, when most non-local newsgroups had names beginning `net.'.
Includes {net.god}s, `net.goddesses' (various charismatic net.women with
circles of on-line admirers), `net.lurkers' (see {lurker}), `net.person',
`net.parties' (a synonym for {boink}, sense 2), and many similar constructs.
see also {net.police}. net.god: /net god/ n. Used to refer to anyone who
satisfies some combination of the following conditions: has been visible on
USENET for more than 5 years, ran one of the original backbone sites,
moderated an important newsgroup, wrote news software, or knows Gene, Mark,
Rick, Mel, Henry, Chuq, and Greg personally. see {demigod}. Net.goddesses
such as Rissa or the Slime Sisters have (so far) been distinguished more by
personality than by authority. net.personality: /net per`sn-al'-*-tee/ n.
Someone who has made a name for him or herself on {USENET}, through either
longevity or attention-getting posts, but doesn't meet the other requirements
of {net.god}hood. net.police: /net-p*-lees'/ n. (var. `net.cops') Those
USENET readers who feel it is their responsibility to pounce on and {flame}
any posting which they regard as offensive or in violation of their
understanding of {netiquette}. Generally used sarcastically or pejoratively.
Also spelled `net police'. see also {net.-}, {code police}. nethack:
/net'hak/ [UNIX] n. A dungeon game similar to {rogue} but more elaborate,
distributed in C source over {USENET} and very popular at UNIX sites and on
PC-class machines (nethack is probably the most widely distributed of the
freeware dungeon games). The earliest versions, written by Jay Fenlason and
later considerably enhanced by Andries Brouwer, were simply called `hack'.
The name changed when maintenance was taken over by a group of hackers
originally organized by Mike Stephenson; the current contact address (as of
mid-1991) is nethack-bugs@linc.cis.upenn.edu. netiquette: /net'ee-ket/ or
/net'i-ket/ [portmanteau from "network etiquette"] n. Conventions of
politeness recognized on {USENET}, such as avoidance of cross-posting to
inappropriate groups or refraining from commercial pluggery on the net.
netnews: /net'n[y]ooz/ n. 1. The software that makes {USENET} run. 2. The
content of USENET. "I read netnews right after my mail most mornings."
netrock: /net'rok/ [IBM] n. A {flame}; used esp. on VNET, IBM's internal
corporate network. network address: n. (also `net address') As used by
hackers, means an address on `the' network (see {network, the}; this is
almost always a {bang path} or {{Internet address}}). Such an address is
essential if one wants to be to be taken seriously by hackers; in particular,
persons or organizations that claim to understand, work with, sell to, or
recruit from among hackers but *don't* display net addresses are quietly
presumed to be clueless poseurs and mentally flushed (see {flush}, sense 4).
Hackers often put their net addresses on their business cards and wear them
prominently in contexts where they expect to meet other hackers face-to-face
(see also {{science-fiction fandom}}). This is mostly functional, but is also
a signal that one identifies with hackerdom (like lodge pins among Masons or
tie-dyed T-shirts among Grateful Dead fans). Net addresses are often used in
email text as a more concise substitute for personal names; indeed, hackers
may come to know each other quite well by network names without ever learning
each others' `legal' monikers. see also {sitename}, {domainist}. network
meltdown: n. A state of complete network overload; the network equivalent of
{thrash}ing. This may be induced by a {Chernobyl packet}. see also {broadcast
storm}, {kamikaze packet}. network, the: n. 1. The union of all the major
noncommercial, academic, and hacker-oriented networks, such as Internet, the
old ARPANET, NSFnet, {BITNET}, and the virtual UUCP and {USENET} `networks',
plus the corporate in-house networks and commercial time-sharing services
(such as CompuServe) that gateway to them. A site is generally considered `on
the network' if it can be reached through some combination of Internet-style
(@-sign) and UUCP (bang-path) addresses. see {bang path}, {{Internet
address}}, {network address}. 2. A fictional conspiracy of libertarian
hacker-subversives and anti-authoritarian monkeywrenchers described in Robert
Anton Wilson's novel `Schr"odinger's Cat', to which many hackers have
subsequently decided they belong (this is an example of {ha ha only
serious}). In sense 1, `network' is often abbreviated to `net'. "Are you on
the net?" is a frequent question when hackers first meet face to face, and
"see you on the net!" is a frequent goodbye. New Jersey: [primarily
Stanford/Silicon Valley] adj. Brain-damaged or of poor design. This refers to
the allegedly wretched quality of such software as C, C++, and UNIX (which
originated at Bell Labs in Murray Hill, New Jersey). "This compiler bites the
bag, but what can you expect from a compiler designed in New Jersey?" Compare
{Berkeley Quality Software}. see also {UNIX conspiracy}. New Testament: n. [C
programmers] The second edition of K&R's `The C Programming Language'
(Prentice-Hall, 1988; ISBN 0-13-110362-8), describing ANSI Standard C. see
{K&R}. newbie: /n[y]oo'bee/ n. [orig. from British public-school and military
slang variant of `new boy'] A USENET neophyte. This term surfaced in the
{newsgroup} talk.bizarre but is now in wide use. Criteria for being
considered a newbie vary wildly; a person can be called a newbie in one
newsgroup while remaining a respected regular in another. The label `newbie'
is sometimes applied as a serious insult to a person who has been around
USENET for a long time but who carefully hides all evidence of having a clue.
see {BIFF}. newgroup wars: /n[y]oo'groop wohrz/ [USENET] n. The salvos of
dueling `newgroup' and `rmgroup' messages sometimes exchanged by persons on
opposite sides of a dispute over whether a {newsgroup} should be created
net-wide. These usually settle out within a week or two as it becomes clear
whether the group has a natural constituency (usually, it doesn't). At times,
especially in the completely anarchic alt hierarchy, the names of newsgroups
themselves become a form of comment or humor; e.g., the spinoff of
alt.swedish.chef.bork.bork.bork from alt.tv.muppets in early 1990, or any
number of specialized abuse groups named after particularly notorious
{flamer}s, e.g., alt.weemba. newline: /n[y]oo'li:n/ n. 1. [techspeak,
primarily UNIX] The ASCII LF character (0001010), used under {{UNIX}} as a
text line terminator. A Bell-Labs-ism rather than a Berkeleyism;
interestingly (and unusually for UNIX jargon), it is said to have originally
been an IBM usage. (Though the term `newline' appears in ASCII standards, it
never caught on in the general computing world before UNIX). 2. More
generally, any magic character, character sequence, or operation (like
Pascal's writeln procedure) required to terminate a text record or separate
lines. see {crlf}, {terpri}. NeWS: /nee'wis/, /n[y]oo'is/ or /n[y]ooz/
[acronym; the `Network Window System'] n. The road not taken in window
systems, an elegant PostScript-based environment that would almost certainly
have won the standards war with {X} if it hadn't been {proprietary} to Sun
Microsystems. There is a lesson here that too many software vendors haven't
yet heeded. Many hackers insist on the two-syllable pronunciations above as a
way of distinguishing NeWS from {news} (the {netnews} software). news: n. see
{netnews}. newsfroup: // [USENET] n. Silly synonym for {newsgroup},
originally a typo but now in regular use on USENET's talk.bizarre and other
lunatic-fringe groups. newsgroup: [USENET] n. One of {USENET}'s huge
collection of topic groups or {fora}. Usenet groups can be `unmoderated'
(anyone can post) or `moderated' (submissions are automatically directed to a
moderator, who edits or filters and then posts the results). Some newsgroups
have parallel {mailing list}s for Internet people with no netnews access,
with postings to the group automatically propagated to the list and vice
versa. Some moderated groups (especially those which are actually gatewayed
Internet mailing lists) are distributed as `digests', with groups of postings
periodically collected into a single large posting with an index. Among the
best-known are comp.lang.c (the C-language forum), comp.arch (on computer
architectures), comp.unix.wizards (for UNIX wizards), rec.arts.sf-lovers (for
science-fiction fans), and talk.politics.misc (miscellaneous political
discussions and {flamage}). nickle: /ni'kl/ [from `nickel', common name for
the U.S. 5-cent coin] n. A {nybble} + 1; 5 bits. Reported among developers
for Mattel's GI 1600 (the Intellivision games processor), a chip with
16-bit-wide RAM but 10-bit-wide ROM. see also {deckle}. night mode: n. see
{phase} (of people). Nightmare File System: n. Pejorative hackerism for Sun's
Network File System (NFS). In any nontrivial network of Suns where there is a
lot of NFS cross-mounting, when one Sun goes down, the others often freeze
up. Some machine tries to access the down one, and (getting no response)
repeats indefinitely. This causes it to appear dead to some messages (what is
actually happening is that it is locked up in what should have been a brief
excursion to a higher {spl} level). Then another machine tries to reach
either the down machine or the pseudo-down machine, and itself becomes
pseudo-down. The first machine to discover the down one is now trying both to
access the down one and to respond to the pseudo-down one, so it is even
harder to reach. This snowballs very fast, and soon the entire network of
machines is frozen --- the user can't even abort the file access that started
the problem! (ITS partisans are apt to cite this as proof of UNIX's alleged
bogosity; ITS had a working NFS-like shared file system with none of these
problems in the early 1970s.) see also {broadcast storm}.