 N - 1" you can deduce that one person at the table wants to eat only soup,
even though you don't know how many people there are (see {great-wall}). 3.
`Nth': adj. The ordinal counterpart of N, senses 1 and 2. "Now for the Nth
and last time..." In the specific context "Nth-year grad student", N is
generally assumed to be at least 4, and is usually 5 or more (see {tenured
graduate student}). see also {{random numbers}}, {two-to-the-N}. :nadger:
/nad'jr/ v. [UK, from rude slang noun `nadgers' for testicles; compare
American & British `bollixed'] Of software or hardware (not people), to
twiddle some object in a hidden manner, generally so that it conforms better
to some format. For instance, string printing routines on 8-bit processors
often take the string text from the instruction stream, thus a print call
looks like `jsr print:"Hello world"'. The print routine has to `nadger' the
saved instruction pointer so that the processor doesn't try to execute the
text as instructions when the subroutine returns. see {adger}. :nagware:
/nag'weir/ n. [Usenet] The variety of {shareware} that displays a large
screen at the beginning or end reminding you to register, typically requiring
some sort of keystroke to continue so that you can't use the software in
batch mode. Compare {annoyware}, {crippleware}. :nailed to the wall: adj.
[like a trophy] Said of a bug finally eliminated after protracted, and even
heroic, effort. :nailing jelly: vi. see {like nailing jelly to a tree}.
:naive: adj. 1. Untutored in the perversities of some particular program or
system; one who still tries to do things in an intuitive way, rather than the
right way (in really good designs these coincide, but most designs aren't
`really good' in the appropriate sense). This trait is completely unrelated
to general maturity or competence, or even competence at any other specific
program. It is a sad commentary on the primitive state of computing that the
natural opposite of this term is often claimed to be `experienced user' but
is really more like `cynical user'. 2. Said of an algorithm that doesn't take
advantage of some superior but advanced technique, e.g., the {bubble sort}.
It may imply naivete on the part of the programmer, although there are
situations where a naive algorithm is preferred, because it is more important
to keep the code comprehensible than to go for maximum performance. "I know
the linear search is naive, but in this case the list typically only has half
a dozen items." Compare {brute force}. :naive user: n. A {luser}. Tends to
imply someone who is ignorant mainly owing to inexperience. When this is
applied to someone who _has_ experience, there is a definite implication of
stupidity. :NAK: /nak/ interj. [from the ASCII mnemonic for 0010101] 1.
On-line joke answer to {ACK}?: "I'm not here." 2. On-line answer to a request
for chat: "I'm not available." 3. Used to politely interrupt someone to tell
them you don't understand their point or that they have suddenly stopped
making sense. see {ACK}, sense 3. "And then, after we recode the project in
COBOL...." "Nak, Nak, Nak! I thought I heard you say COBOL!" 4. A negative
answer. "OK if I boot the server?" "NAK!" :NANA: // [Usenet] The newsgroups
news.admin.net-abuse.*, devoted to fighting {spam} and network abuse. Each
individual newsgroup is often referred to by adding a letter to NANA. For
example, NANAU would refer to news.admin.net-abuse.usenet. When spam began to
be a serious problem around 1995, and a loose network of anti-spammers formed
to combat it, spammers immediately accused them of being the {backbone
cabal}, or the Cabal reborn. Though this was not true, spam-fighters
ironically accepted the label and the tag line "There is No Cabal" reappeared
(later, and now commonly, abbreviated to "TINC"). Nowadays "the Cabal" is
generally understood to refer to the NANA regulars. :nano: /nan'oh/ n. [CMU:
from `nanosecond'] A brief period of time. "Be with you in a nano" means you
really will be free shortly, i.e., implies what mainstream people mean by "in
a jiffy" (whereas the hackish use of `jiffy' is quite different -- see
{jiffy}). :nano-: pref. [SI: the next quantifier below {micro-}; meaning *