 NOMEX underwear: [USENET] n. Syn. {asbestos longjohns}, used mostly in
auto-related mailing lists and newsgroups. NOMEX underwear is an actual
product available on the racing equipment market, used as a fire retardant
measure and required in some racing series. non-optimal solution: n. (also
`sub-optimal solution') An astoundingly stupid way to do something. This term
is generally used in deadpan sarcasm, as its impact is greatest when the
person speaking looks completely serious. Compare {stunning}. see also {Bad
Thing}. nonlinear: adj. [scientific computation] 1. Behaving in an erratic
and unpredictable fashion. When used to describe the behavior of a machine or
program, it suggests that said machine or program is being forced to run far
outside of design specifications. This behavior may be induced by
unreasonable inputs, or may be triggered when a more mundane bug sends the
computation far away from its expected course. 2. When describing the
behavior of a person, suggests a tantrum or a {flame}. "When you talk to Bob,
don't mention the drug problem or he'll go nonlinear for hours." In this
context, `go nonlinear' connotes `blow up out of proportion' (note that
`proportions' are mathematically linear). nontrivial: adj. Requiring real
thought or significant computing power. Often used as an understated way of
saying that a problem is quite difficult. The preferred emphatic form is
`decidedly nontrivial'. see {trivial}, {uninteresting}, {interesting}.
notwork: n. A network, when it's acting {flaky} or {down}. Compare
{nyetwork}. Orig. referred to a particular period of flakiness on IBM's VNET
corporate network, c.1988. NP-: /en pee/ pref. Extremely. Used to modify
adjectives describing a level or quality of difficulty; the connotation is
often `more so than it should be' (NP-complete problems all seem to be very
hard, but so far no one has found a good a-priori reason that they should
be). "Getting this algorithm to perform correctly in every case is
NP-annoying." This is generalized from the computer science terms `NP-hard'
and `NP-complete'. NP is the set of Nondeterministic-Polynomial algorithms,
those which can be completed by a nondeterministic finite state machine in an
amount of time that is a polynomial function of the size of the input.