 :NSA line eater: n. The National Security Agency trawling program sometimes
assumed to be reading the net for the U.S. Government's spooks. Most hackers
describe it as a mythical beast, but some believe it actually exists, more
aren't sure, and many believe in acting as though it exists just in case.
Some netters put loaded phrases like `KGB', `Uzi', `nuclear materials',
`Palestine', `cocaine', and `assassination' in their {sig block}s in a
(probably futile) attempt to confuse and overload the creature. The {GNU}
version of {EMACS} actually has a command that randomly inserts a bunch of
insidious anarcho-verbiage into your edited text. There is a mainstream
variant of this myth involving a `Trunk Line Monitor', which supposedly used
speech recognition to extract words from telephone trunks. This one was
making the rounds in the late 1970s, spread by people who had no idea of
then-current technology or the storage, signal-processing, or speech
recognition needs of such a project. On the basis of mass-storage costs alone
it would have been cheaper to hire 50 high-school students and just let them
listen in. Speech-recognition technology can't do this job even now (1991),
and almost certainly won't in this millennium, either. The peak of silliness
came with a letter to an alternative paper in New Haven, Connecticut, laying
out the factoids of this Big Brotherly affair. The letter writer then
revealed his actual agenda by offering --- at an amazing low price, just this
once, we take VISA and MasterCard --- a scrambler guaranteed to daunt the
Trunk Trawler and presumably allowing the would-be Baader-Meinhof gangs of
the world to get on with their business.