 :nybble: /nib'l/ (alt. `nibble') /n./ [from /v./ `nibble' by analogy with
`bite' => `byte'] Four bits; one {hex} digit; a half-byte. Though `byte' is
now techspeak, this useful relative is still jargon. Compare {{byte}}; see
also {bit}, Apparently the `nybble' spelling is uncommon in Commonwealth
Hackish, as British orthography suggests the pronunciation /ni:'bl/.
Following `bit', `byte' and `nybble' there have been quite a few analogical
attempts to construct unambiguous terms for bit blocks of other sizes. All of
these are strictly jargon, not techspeak, and not very common jargon at that
(most hackers would recognize them in context but not use them
spontaneously). We collect them here for reference together with the
ambiguous techspeak terms `word', `half-word' and `quadwords'; some
(indicated) have substantial information separate entries. 2 bits: {crumb},
{quad}, {quarter}, tayste 4 bits: nybble 5 bits: {nickle} 10 bits: {deckle}
16 bits: playte, {chawmp} (on a 32-bit machine), word (on a 16-bit machine),
half-word (on a 32-bit machine). 18 bits: {chawmp} (on a 36-bit machine),
half-word (on a 36-bit machine) 32 bits: dynner, {gawble} (on a 32-bit
machine), word (on a 32-bit machine), longword (on a 16-bit machine). 36:
word (on a 36-bit machine) 48 bits: {gawble} (under circumstances that remain
obscure) The fundamental motivation for most of these jargon terms (aside
from the normal hackerly enjoyment of punning wordplay) is the extreme
ambiguity of the term `word' and its derivatives.