 4.43 build of Weemax, but as a workaround you can type CTRL-R, then
SHIFT-F5, and delete the remaining {cruft} by hand." :working as designed:
adj. [IBM] 1. In conformance to a wrong or inappropriate specification;
useful, but misdesigned. 2. Frequently used as a sardonic comment on a
program's utility. 3. Unfortunately also used as a bogus reason for not
accepting a criticism or suggestion. At {IBM}, this sense is used in official
documents! see {BAD}. :worm: n. [from `tapeworm' in John Brunner's novel "The
Shockwave Rider", via XEROX PARC] A program that propagates itself over a
network, reproducing itself as it goes. Compare {virus}. Nowadays the term
has negative connotations, as it is assumed that only {cracker}s write worms.
Perhaps the best-known example was Robert T. Morris's {Great Worm} of 1988, a
`benign' one that got out of control and hogged hundreds of Suns and VAXen
across the U.S. see also {cracker}, {RTM}, {Trojan horse}, {ice}. :wormhole:
/werm'hohl/ n. [from the `wormhole' singularities hypothesized in some
versions of General Relativity theory] 1. [n.,obs.] A location in a monitor
which contains the address of a routine, with the specific intent of making
it easy to substitute a different routine. This term is now obsolescent;
modern operating systems use clusters of wormholes extensively (for
modularization of I/O handling in particular, as in the Unix device-driver
organization) but the preferred techspeak for these clusters is `device
tables', `jump tables' or `capability tables'. 2. [Amateur Packet Radio] A
network path using a commercial satellite link to join two or more amateur
VHF networks. So called because traffic routed through a wormhole leaves and
re-enters the amateur network over great distances with usually little clue
in the message routing header as to how it got from one relay to the other.
Compare {gopher hole} (sense 2). :wound around the axle: adj. In an infinite
loop. Often used by older computer types. :wrap around: vi. (also n.
`wraparound' and v. shorthand `wrap') 1. [techspeak] The action of a counter
that starts over at zero or at `minus infinity' (see {infinity}) after its
maximum value has been reached, and continues incrementing, either because it
is programmed to do so or because of an overflow (as when a car's odometer
starts over at 0). 2. To change {phase} gradually and continuously by
maintaining a steady wake-sleep cycle somewhat longer than 24 hours, e.g.,
living six long (28-hour) days in a week (or, equivalently, sleeping at the
rate of 10 microhertz). This sense is also called {phase-wrapping}.
:write-only code: n. [a play on `read-only memory'] Code so arcane, complex,
or ill-structured that it cannot be modified or even comprehended by anyone
but its author, and possibly not even by him/her. A {Bad Thing}. :write-only
language: n. A language with syntax (or semantics) sufficiently dense and
bizarre that any routine of significant size is automatically {write-only
code}. A sobriquet applied occasionally to C and often to APL, though
{INTERCAL} and {TECO} certainly deserve it more. see also {Befunge}.
:write-only memory: n. The obvious antonym to `read-only memory'. Out of
frustration with the long and seemingly useless chain of approvals required
of component specifications, during which no actual checking seemed to occur,
an engineer at Signetics once created a specification for a write-only memory
and included it with a bunch of other specifications to be approved. This
inclusion came to the attention of Signetics {management} only when regular
customers started calling and asking for pricing information. Signetics
published a corrected edition of the data book and requested the return of
the `erroneous' ones. Later, in 1972, Signetics bought a double-page spread
in "Electronics" magazine's April issue and used the spec as an April Fools'
Day joke. Instead of the more conventional characteristic curves, the 25120
"fully encoded, 9046 x N, Random Access, write-only-memory" data sheet
included diagrams of "bit capacity vs. Temp.", "Iff vs. Vff", "Number of pins
remaining vs. number of socket insertions", and "AQL vs. selling price". The
25120 required a 6.3 VAC VFF supply, a +10V VCC, and VDD of 0V, +/- 2%.
:Wrong Thing: n. A design, action, or decision that is clearly incorrect or
inappropriate. Often capitalized; always emphasized in speech as if
capitalized. The opposite of the {Right Thing}; more generally, anything that
is not the Right Thing. In cases where `the good is the enemy of the best',
the merely good -- although good -- is nevertheless the Wrong Thing. "In C,
the default is for module-level declarations to be visible everywhere, rather
than just within the module. This is clearly the Wrong Thing." :wugga wugga:
/wuh'g* wuh'g*/ n. Imaginary sound that a computer program makes as it labors
with a tedious or difficult task.{grind} (sense 4). :wumpus: /wuhm'p*s/ n.
The central monster (and, in many versions, the name) of a famous family of
very early computer games called "Hunt The Wumpus'. The original was invented
in 1970 (several years before {ADVENT}) by Gregory Yob. The wumpus lived
somewhere in a cave with the topology of an dodecahedron's edge/vertex graph
(later versions supported other topologies, including an icosahedron and
Mo"bius strip). The player started somewhere at random in the cave with five
`crooked arrows'; these could be shot through up to three connected rooms,
and would kill the wumpus on a hit (later versions introduced the wounded
wumpus, which got very angry). Unfortunately for players, the movement
necessary to map the maze was made hazardous not merely by the wumpus (which
would eat you if you stepped on him) but also by bottomless pits and colonies
of super bats that would pick you up and drop you at a random location (later
versions added `anaerobic termites' that ate arrows, bat migrations, and
earthquakes that randomly changed pit locations). This game appears to have
been the first to use a non-random graph-structured map (as opposed to a
rectangular grid like the even older Star Trek games). In this respect, as in
the dungeon-like setting and its terse, amusing messages, it prefigured
{ADVENT} and {Zork} and was directly ancestral to the latter (Zork
acknowledged this heritage by including a super-bat colony). A C emulation of
the original Basic game is available at the Retrocomputing Museum,
`http://www.ccil.org/retro'. :WYSIAYG: /wiz'ee-ayg/ adj. Describes a user
interface under which "What You see Is _All_ You Get"; an unhappy variant of
{WYSIWYG}. Visual, `point-and-shoot'-style interfaces tend to have easy
initial learning curves, but also to lack depth; they often frustrate
advanced users who would be better served by a command-style interface. When
this happens, the frustrated user has a WYSIAYG problem. This term is most
often used of editors, word processors, and document formatting programs.
WYSIWYG `desktop publishing' programs, for example, are a clear win for
creating small documents with lots of fonts and graphics in them, especially
things like newsletters and presentation slides. When typesetting book-length
manuscripts, on the other hand, scale changes the nature of the task; one
quickly runs into WYSIAYG limitations, and the increased power and
flexibility of a command-driven formatter like {{TeX}} or Unix's {{troff}}
becomes not just desirable but a necessity. Compare {YAFIYGI}. :WYSIWYG:
/wiz'ee-wig/ adj. [Traced to Flip Wilson's "Geraldine" character c.1970]
Describes a user interface under which "What You see Is What You Get", as
opposed to one that uses more-or-less obscure commands that do not result in
immediate visual feedback. True WYSIWYG in environments supporting multiple
fonts or graphics is a a rarely-attained ideal; there are variants of this
term to express real-world manifestations including WYSIAWYG (What You see Is
_Almost_ What You Get) and WYSIMOLWYG (What You see Is More or Less What You
Get). All these can be mildly derogatory, as they are often used to refer to
dumbed-down {user-friendly} interfaces targeted at non-programmers; a hacker
has no fear of obscure commands (compare {WYSIAYG}). On the other hand,
{EMACS} was one of the very first WYSIWYG editors, replacing (actually, at
first overlaying) the extremely obscure, command-based {TECO}. see also {WIMP
environment}. [Oddly enough, WYSIWYG has already made it into the OED, in
lower case yet. --ESR] = X = ===== :X: /X/ n. 1. Used in various speech and
writing contexts (also in lowercase) in roughly its algebraic sense of
`unknown within a set defined by context' (compare {N}). Thus, the
abbreviation 680x0 stands for 68000, 68010, 68020, 68030, or 68040, and 80x86
stands for 80186, 80286, 80386, 80486, 80586 or 80686 (note that a Unix
hacker might write these as 680[0-6]0 and 80[1-6]86 or 680?0 and 80?86
respectively; see {glob}). 2. [after the name of an earlier window system
called `W'] An over-sized, over-featured, over-engineered and incredibly
over-complicated window system developed at MIT and widely used on Unix
systems. :XEROX PARC: /zee'roks park'/ n. The famed Palo Alto Research
Center. For more than a decade, from the early 1970s into the mid-1980s, PARC
yielded an astonishing volume of groundbreaking hardware and software
innovations. The modern mice, windows, and icons style of software interface
was invented there. So was the laser printer and the local-area network; and
PARC's series of D machines anticipated the powerful personal computers of
the 1980s by a decade. Sadly, the prophets at PARC were without honor in
their own company, so much so that it became a standard joke to describe PARC
as a place that specialized in developing brilliant ideas for everyone else.
The stunning shortsightedness and obtusity of XEROX's top-level {suit}s has
been well anatomized in "Fumbling The Future: How XEROX Invented, Then
Ignored, the First Personal Computer" by Douglas K. Smith and Robert C.
Alexander (William Morrow & Co., 1988, ISBN 0-688-09511-9). :XOFF: /X-of/ n.
Syn. {control-S}. :XON: /X-on/ n. Syn. {control-Q}. :xor: /X'or/, /kzor/
conj. Exclusive or. `A xor B' means `A or B, but not both'. "I want to get
cherry pie xor a banana split." This derives from the technical use of the
term as a function on truth-values that is true if exactly one of its two
arguments is true. :xref: /X'ref/ v.,n. Hackish standard abbreviation for
`cross-reference'. :XXX: /X-X-X/ n. A marker that attention is needed.
Commonly used in program comments to indicate areas that are kluged up or
need to be. Some hackers liken `XXX' to the notional heavy-porn movie rating.
Compare {FIXME}. :xyzzy: /X-Y-Z-Z-Y/, /X-Y-ziz'ee/, /ziz'ee/, or /ik-ziz'ee/
adj. [from the ADVENT game] The {canonical} `magic word'. This comes from
{ADVENT}, in which the idea is to explore an underground cave with many rooms
and to collect the treasures you find there. If you type `xyzzy' at the
appropriate time, you can move instantly between two otherwise distant
points. If, therefore, you encounter some bit of {magic}, you might remark on
this quite succinctly by saying simply "Xyzzy!" "Ordinarily you can't look at
someone else's screen if he has protected it, but if you type
quadruple-bucky-clear the system will let you do it anyway." "Xyzzy!" It's
traditional for xyzzy to be an {Easter egg} in games with text interfaces.
Xyzzy has actually been implemented as an undocumented no-op command on
several OSes; in Data General's AOS/VS, for example, it would typically
respond "Nothing happens", just as {ADVENT} did if the magic was invoked at
the wrong spot or before a player had performed the action that enabled the
word. In more recent 32-bit versions, by the way,