 CHECKPOINT'. It marks the boundary between university and the Real World;
check your notions of reality before passing. This joke is funnier because
the Cambridge `campus' is actually coextensive with the center of Cambridge
town. see also {fear and loathing}, {mundane}, and {uninteresting}. :reality
check: n. 1. The simplest kind of test of software or hardware; doing the
equivalent of asking it what 2 + 2 is and seeing if you get 4. The software
equivalent of a {smoke test}. 2. The act of letting a {real user} try out
prototype software. Compare {sanity check}. :reality-distortion field: n. An
expression used to describe the persuasive ability of managers like Steve
Jobs (the term originated at Apple in the 1980s to describe his peculiar
charisma). Those close to these managers become passionately committed to
possibly insane projects, without regard to the practicality of their
implementation or competitive forces in the marketpace. :reaper: n. A
{prowler} that {GFR}s files. A file removed in this way is said to have been
`reaped'. :rectangle slinger: n. see {polygon pusher}. :recursion: n. see
{recursion}. See also {tail recursion}. :recursive acronym:: n. A hackish
(and especially MIT) tradition is to choose acronyms/abbreviations that refer
humorously to themselves or to other acronyms/abbreviations. The classic
examples were two MIT editors called EINE ("EINE Is Not EMACS") and ZWEI
("ZWEI Was EINE Initially"). More recently, there is a Scheme compiler called
LIAR (Liar Imitates Apply Recursively), and {GNU} (q.v., sense 1) stands for
"GNU's Not Unix!" -- and a company with the name Cygnus, which expands to
"Cygnus, Your GNU Support" (though Cygnus people say this is a {backronym}).
see also {mung}, {EMACS}. :Red Book: n. 1. Informal name for one of the three
standard references on {{PostScript}} ("PostScript Language Reference
Manual", Adobe Systems (Addison-Wesley, 1985; QA76.73.P67P67; ISBN
0-201-10174-2, or the 1990 second edition ISBN 0-201-18127-4); the others are
known as the {Green Book}, the {Blue Book}, and the {White Book} (sense 2).
2. Informal name for one of the 3 standard references on Smalltalk
("Smalltalk-80: The Interactive Programming Environment" by Adele Goldberg
(Addison-Wesley, 1984; QA76.8.S635G638; ISBN 0-201-11372-4); this too is
associated with blue and green books). 3. Any of the 1984 standards issued by
the CCITT eighth plenary assembly. These include, among other things, the
X.400 email spec and the Group 1 through 4 fax standards. 4. The new version
of the {Green Book} (sense 4) -- IEEE 1003.1-1990, a.k.a ISO 9945-1 -- is
(because of the color and the fact that it is printed on A4 paper) known in
the USA as "the Ugly Red Book That Won't Fit On The Shelf" and in Europe as
"the Ugly Red Book That's A Sensible Size". 5. The NSA "Trusted Network
Interpretation" companion to the {Orange Book}. see also {{book titles}}.
:red wire: n. [IBM] Patch wires installed by programmers who have no business
mucking with the hardware. It is said that the only thing more dangerous than
a hardware guy with a code patch is a {softy} with a soldering iron....
Compare {blue wire}, {yellow wire}, {purple wire}. :regexp: /reg'eksp/ n.
[Unix] (alt. `regex' or `reg-ex') 1. Common written and spoken abbreviation
for `regular expression', one of the wildcard patterns used, e.g., by Unix
utilities such as `grep(1)', `sed(1)', and `awk(1)'. These use conventions
similar to but more elaborate than those described under {glob}. For purposes
of this lexicon, it is sufficient to note that regexps also allow
complemented character sets using `^'; thus, one can specify `any
non-alphabetic character' with `[^A-Za-z]'. 2. Name of a well-known PD
regexp-handling package in portable C, written by revered Usenetter Henry
Spencer <<henry@zoo.toronto.edu>>. :register dancing: n. Many older processor
architectures suffer from a serious shortage of general-purpose registers.
This is especially a problem for compiler-writers, because their generated
code needs places to store temporaries for things like intermediate values in
expression evaluation. Some designs with this problem, like the Intel 80x86,
do have a handful of special-purpose registers that can be pressed into
service, providing suitable care is taken to avoid unpleasant side effects on
the state of the processor: while the special-purpose register is being used
to hold an intermediate value, a delicate minuet is required in which the
previous value of the register is saved and then restored just before the
official function (and value) of the special-purpose register is again
needed. :rehi: [IRC] "Hello again." Very commonly used to greet people upon
returning to an IRC channel after {channel hopping}. :reincarnation, cycle
of: n. see {cycle of reincarnation}. :reinvent the wheel: v. To design or
implement a tool equivalent to an existing one or part of one, with the
implication that doing so is silly or a waste of time. This is often a valid
criticism. On the other hand, automobiles don't use wooden rollers, and some
kinds of wheel have to be reinvented many times before you get them right. On
the third hand, people reinventing the wheel do tend to come up with the
moral equivalent of a trapezoid with an offset axle. :relay rape: n. The
hijacking of a third party's unsecured mail server to deliver {spam}.
:religion of CHI: /ki:/ n. [Case Western Reserve University] Yet another
hackish parody religion (see also {Church of the SubGenius},
{Discordianism}). In the mid-70s, the canonical "Introduction to Programming"
courses at CWRU were taught in Algol, and student exercises were punched on
cards and run on a Univac 1108 system using a homebrew operating system named
CHI. The religion had no doctrines and but one ritual: whenever the
worshipper noted that a digital clock read 11:08, he or she would recite the
phrase "It is