 PETSCII: /pet'skee/ [abbreviation of PET ASCII] n. The variation (many would
say perversion) of the {{ASCII}} character set used by the Commodore Business
Machines PET series of personal computers and the later Commodore C64, C16,
and C128 machines. The PETSCII set used left-arrow and up-arrow (as in
old-style ASCII) instead of underscore and caret, placed the unshifted
alphabet at positions 65--90, put the shifted alphabet at positions 193--218,
and added graphics characters. phase: 1. n. The phase of one's
waking-sleeping schedule with respect to the standard 24-hour cycle. This is
a useful concept among people who often work at night and/or according to no
fixed schedule. It is not uncommon to change one's phase by as much as 6
hours per day on a regular basis. "What's your phase?" "I've been getting in
about 8 P.M. lately, but I'm going to {wrap around} to the day schedule by
Friday." A person who is roughly 12 hours out of phase is sometimes said to
be in `night mode'. (The term `day mode' is also (but less frequently) used,
meaning you're working 9 to 5 (or, more likely, 10 to 6).) The act of
altering one's cycle is called `changing phase'; `phase shifting' has also
been recently reported from Caltech. 2. `change phase the hard way': To stay
awake for a very long time in order to get into a different phase. 3. `change
phase the easy way': To stay asleep, etc. However, some claim that either
staying awake longer or sleeping longer is easy, and that it is *shortening*
your day or night that's hard (see {wrap around}). The `jet lag' that
afflicts travelers who cross many time-zone boundaries may be attributed to
two distinct causes: the strain of travel per se, and the strain of changing
phase. Hackers who suddenly find that they must change phase drastically in a
short period of time, particularly the hard way, experience something very
like jet lag without traveling. phase of the moon: n. Used humorously as a
random parameter on which something is said to depend. Sometimes implies
unreliability of whatever is dependent, or that reliability seems to be
dependent on conditions nobody has been able to determine. "This feature
depends on having the channel open in mumble mode, having the foo switch set,
and on the phase of the moon." True story: Once upon a time there was a bug
that really did depend on the phase of the moon. There is a little subroutine
that had traditionally been used in various programs at MIT to calculate an
approximation to the moon's true phase. GLS incorporated this routine into a
LISP program that, when it wrote out a file, would print a timestamp line
almost 80 characters long. Very occasionally the first line of the message
would be too long and would overflow onto the next line, and when the file
was later read back in the program would {barf}. The length of the first line
depended on both the precise date and time and the length of the phase
specification when the timestamp was printed, and so the bug literally
depended on the phase of the moon! The first paper edition of the Jargon File
(Steele-1983) included an example of one of the timestamp lines that
exhibited this bug, but the typesetter `corrected' it. This has since been
described as the phase-of-the-moon-bug bug. phreaking: [from `phone phreak']
n. 1. The art and science of cracking the phone network (so as, for example,
to make free long-distance calls). 2. By extension, security-cracking in any
other context (especially, but not exclusively, on communications networks).
At one time phreaking was a semi-respectable activity among hackers; there
was a gentleman's agreement that phreaking as an intellectual game and a form
of exploration was OK, but serious theft of services was taboo. There was
significant crossover between the hacker community and the hard-core phone
phreaks who ran semi-underground networks of their own through such media as
the legendary `TAP Newsletter'. This ethos began to break down in the
mid-1980s as wider dissemination of the techniques put them in the hands of
less responsible phreaks. Around the same time, changes in the phone network
made old-style technical ingenuity less effective as a way of hacking it, so
phreaking came to depend more on overtly criminal acts such as stealing
phone-card numbers. The crimes and punishments of gangs like the `414 group'
turned that game very ugly. A few old-time hackers still phreak casually just
to keep their hand in, but most these days have hardly even heard of `blue
boxes' or any of the other paraphernalia of the great phreaks of yore. pico-:
[SI: a quantifier meaning * 10^-12] pref. Smaller than {nano-}; used in the
same rather loose connotative way as {nano-} and {micro-}. This usage is not
yet common in the way {nano-} and {micro-} are, but should be instantly
recognizable to any hacker. see also {{quantifiers}}, {micro-}. pig, run like
a: v. To run very slowly on given hardware, said of software. Distinct from
{hog}. pilot error: [Sun: from aviation] n. A user's misconfiguration or
misuse of a piece of software, producing apparently buglike results (compare
{UBD}). "Joe Luser reported a bug in sendmail that causes it to generate
bogus headers." "That's not a bug, that's pilot error. His `sendmail.cf' is
hosed." ping: [from the TCP/IP acronym `Packet INternet Groper', prob.
originally contrived to match the submariners' term for a sonar pulse] 1. n.
Slang term for a small network message (ICMP ECHO) sent by a computer to
check for the presence and aliveness of another. Occasionally used as a phone
greeting. see {ACK}, also {ENQ}. 2. vt. To verify the presence of. 3. vt. To
get the attention of. From the UNIX command `ping(1)' that sends an ICMP ECHO
packet to another host. 4. vt. To send a message to all members of a {mailing
list} requesting an {ACK} (in order to verify that everybody's addresses are
reachable). "We haven't heard much of anything from Geoff, but he did respond
with an ACK both times I pinged jargon-friends." The funniest use of `ping'
to date was described in January 1991 by Steve Hayman on the USENET group
comp.sys.next. He was trying to isolate a faulty cable segment on a TCP/IP
Ethernet hooked up to a NeXT machine, and got tired of having to run back to
his console after each cabling tweak to see if the ping packets were getting
through. So he used the sound-recording feature on the NeXT, then wrote a
script that repeatedly invoked `ping(8)', listened for an echo, and played
back the recording on each returned packet. Result? A program that caused the
machine to repeat, over and over, "Ping ... ping ... ping ..." as long as the
network was up. He turned the volume to maximum, ferreted through the
building with one ear cocked, and found a faulty tee connector in no time.
Pink-Shirt Book: `The Peter Norton Programmer's Guide to the IBM PC'. The
original cover featured a picture of Peter Norton with a silly smirk on his
face, wearing a pink shirt. Perhaps in recognition of this usage, the current
edition has a different picture of Norton wearing a pink shirt. see also
{{book titles}}.