 PIP: /pip/ [Peripheral Interchange Program] vt.,obs. To copy, from the
program PIP on CP/M and RSX-11 that was used for file copying (and in RSX for
just about every other file operation you might want to do). Obsolete, but
still occasionally heard. It is said that when the program was originated
during the development of the PDP-6 in 1963 it was called ATLATL (`Anything,
Lord, to Anything, Lord'). pipeline: [UNIX, orig. by Doug McIlroy; now also
used under MS-DOS and elsewhere] n. A chain of {filter} programs connected
`head-to-tail', so that the output of one becomes the input of the next.
Under UNIX, user utilities can often be implemented or at least prototyped by
a suitable collection of pipelines and temp-file grinding encapsulated in a
shell script; this is much less effort than writing C every time, and the
capability is considered one of UNIX's major winning features. pistol: [IBM]
n. A tool that makes it all too easy for you to shoot yourself in the foot.
"UNIX `rm *' makes such a nice pistol!" pizza box: [SUN] n. The largish thin
box housing the electronics in (especially SUN) desktop workstations, so
named because of its size and shape, and the dimpled pattern that looks like
air holes. pizza, ANSI standard: /an'see stan'd@rd peet'z@/ [CMU] Pepperoni
and mushroom pizza. Coined allegedly because most pizzas ordered by CMU
hackers during some period leading up to mid-1990 were of that flavor. see
also {rotary debugger}. plain-ASCII: Syn. {flat-ASCII}. plan file: [UNIX] n.
On systems which support {finger}, the `.plan' file in a user's home
directory is displayed when he or she is fingered. This feature was
originally intended to be used to keep potential fingerers apprised of one's
near-future plans, but has been turned almost universally to humorous and
self-expressive purposes (like a {sig block}). playpen: [IBM] n. A room where
programmers work. Compare {salt mines}. playte: /playt/ 16 bits, by analogy
with {nybble} and {{byte}}. Usage: rare and extremely silly. see also
{dynner}. plingnet: /pling'net/ n. Syn. {UUCPNET}. Also see {{Commonwealth
Hackish}}. plonk: [USENET] The sound a {newbie} makes as he falls to the
bottom of a {kill file}. Almost exclusively used in the {newsgroup}
`talk.bizarre', this term (usually written "*plonk*") is a form of public
ridicule. plugh: /ploogh/ [from the {ADVENT} game] v. see {xyzzy}. plumbing:
[UNIX] n. Term used for {shell} code, so called because of the prevalence of
`pipeline's that feed the output of one program to the input of another. Esp.
used in the construction `hairy plumbing' (see {hairy}. "You can kluge
together a basic spell-checker out of `sort(1)', `comm(1)' and `tr(1)' with a
little plumbing."