 PM: /P-M/ 1. v. (from `preventive maintenance') To bring down a machine for
inspection or test purposes; see {scratch monkey}. 2. n. Abbrev. for
`Presentation Manager', an {elephantine} OS/2 graphical user interface. see
also {provocative maintenance}. pnambic: /p*-nam'bik/ [Acronym from the scene
in the film version of `The Wizard of Oz' in which true nature of the wizard
is first discovered: "Pay no attention to the man behind the curtain."] 1. A
stage of development of a process or function that, owing to incomplete
implementation or to the complexity of the system, requires human interaction
to simulate or replace some or all of the actions, inputs, or outputs of the
process or function. 2. Of or pertaining to a process or function whose
apparent operations are wholly or partially falsified. 3. Requiring
{prestidigitization}. The ultimate pnambic product was "Dan Bricklin's Demo",
a program which supported flashy user-interface design prototyping. There is
a related maxim among hackers: "Any sufficiently advanced technology is
indistinguishable from a rigged demo." see {magic}, sense 1, for illumination
of this point. pod: [allegedly from acronym POD for `Prince Of Darkness'] n.
A Diablo 630 (or, latterly, any letter-quality impact printer). From the
DEC-10 PODTYPE program used to feed formatted text to it. see also {P.O.D.}
poke: n.,vt. see {peek}. poll: v.,n. 1. [techspeak] The action of checking
the status of an input line, sensor, or memory location to see if a
particular external event has been registered. 2. To repeatedly call or check
with someone: "I keep polling him, but he's not answering his phone; he must
be swapped out." 3. To ask. "Lunch? I poll for a takeout order daily."
polygon pusher: n. A chip designer who spends most of his or her time at the
physical layout level (which requires drawing *lots* of multi-colored
polygons). Also `rectangle slinger'.