 POM: /pee-oh-em/ n. {Phase of the moon}. Usage: usually used in the phrase
`POM-dependent' which means {flaky}. pop: /pop/ [based on the stack operation
that removes the top of a stack, and the fact that procedure return addresses
are saved on the stack] (also POP, POPJ /pop-jay/) 1. vt. To remove something
from a {stack} or {pdl}. If a person says he has popped something from his
stack, he means he has finally finished working on it and can now remove it
from the list of things hanging over his head. 2. To return from a digression
(the J-form derives specifically from a {PDP-10} assembler instruction). By
verb doubling, "Popj, popj" means roughly, "Now let's see, where were we?"
see {RTI}. posing: n. On a {MUD}, the use of `:' or an equivalent command to
announce to other players that one is taking a certain physical action, which
however has no effect on the game. post: v. To send a message to a {mailing
list} or {newsgroup}. Distinguished in context from `mail'; one might ask,
for example, "Are you going to post the patch or mail it to known users?"
posting: n. Noun corresp. to v. {post} (but note that the shorter word can be
nouned). Distinguished from a `letter' or ordinary {email} message by the
fact that it's broadcast rather than point-to-point. It is unclear whether
messages sent to a small mailing list are postings or email; perhaps the best
dividing line is that if you don't know the names of all the potential
recipients, it's a posting. postmaster: n. The email contact and maintenance
person on a site connected to the Internet or UUCPNET. Often, but not always,
the same as the {admin}. It is conventional for each machine to have a
`postmaster' alias that goes to this person. power cycle: vt. (also, `cycle
power' or just `cycle') To power off a machine and then power it on
immediately, with the intention of clearing some kind of {hung} or {gronked}
state. Syn. {120 reset}; see also {Big Red Switch}. Compare {vulcan nerve
pinch}, {bounce}, {boot}, and see the AI Koan in Appendix A about Tom Knight
and the novice.