 PPN: /pip'n/ [from `Project-Programmer Number'] n. A user-ID under {TOPS-10}
and its various mutant progeny at SAIL, BBN, CompuServe, and elsewhere.
Old-time hackers from the PDP-10 era sometimes use this to refer to user IDs
on other systems as well. precedence lossage: /pre's*-dens los'j/ [C
programmers] n. Coding error in an expression due to unexpected grouping of
arithmetic or logical operators by the compiler. Used esp. of certain common
coding errors in C due to the nonintuitively low precedence levels of `&',
`|', `^', `<<', and `>>' (for this reason, experienced C programmers
deliberately forget the language's {baroque} precedence hierarchy and
parenthesize defensively). Can always be avoided by suitable use of
parentheses. {LISP} fans enjoy pointing out that this can't happen in *their*
favorite language, which eschews precedence entirely, requiring one to use
explicit parentheses everywhere. see {aliasing bug}, {memory leak}, {smash
the stack}, {fandango on core}, {overrun screw}. prepend: /pree`pend'/ [by
analogy with `append'] vt. To prefix. Like `append', but (unlike `prefix' or
`suffix' as a verb) the direct object is always the thing being added and not
the original word (character string, etc). No, this is *not* standard
English, yet! pretty pictures: n. [scientific computation] The next step up
from {numbers}. Interesting graphical output from a program which may not
have any sensible relationship to the system the program is intended to
model. Good for showing to {management}. prettyprint: /prit'ee-print/ (alt.
`pretty-print') v. 1. To generate `pretty' human-readable output from a
{hairy} internal representation; esp. used for the process of {grind}ing
(sense #2) LISP code. 2. To format in some particularly slick and nontrivial
way. prime time: [from TV programming] n. Normal high-usage hours on a
timesharing system; the day shift. Avoidance of prime time is a major reason
for {night mode} hacking. priority interrupt: [from the hardware term] n.
Describes any stimulus compelling enough to yank one right out of {hack
mode}. Classically used to describe being dragged away by an {SO} for
immediate sex, but may also refer to more mundane interruptions such as a
fire alarm going off in the near vicinity. Also called an {NMI} (non-maskable
interrupt), especially in PC-land. profile: [UNIX] n. 1. A control file for a
program, esp. a text file automatically read from each user's home directory
and intended to be easily modified by the user in order to customize the
program's behavior. Used to avoid {hardcoded} choices. 2. [techspeak] A
report on the amounts of time spent in each routine of a program, used to
find and {tune} away the {hot spot}s in it. This sense is often verbed. Some
profiling modes report units other than time (such as call counts) and/or at
granularities other than per-routine, but the idea is similar. proglet:
[Britain] n. A short extempore program written to meet an immediate,
transient need. Often written in BASIC, rarely more than a dozen lines long,
and contains no subroutines. The largest amount of code that can be written
off the top of one's head that does not need any editing and that runs
correctly the first time. Compare {toy program}, {one-liner wars}. program:
n. 1. A magic spell cast over a computer allowing it to turn one's input into
error messages. 2. An exercise in experimental epistemology. 3. A form of
art, ostensibly intended for the instruction of computers, which is
nevertheless almost inevitably a failure if other programmers can't
understand it. Programmer's Cheer: "Shift to the left! Shift to the right!
Pop up, push down! Byte! Byte! Byte!" A joke so old it has hair on it....
programming: n. 1. In folklore, this was classically defined as "the art of
debugging a blank sheet of paper". Following the rise of on-line editing this
should probably be recast as "The art of debugging an empty source file." 2.
n. A pastime similar to banging one's head against a wall, but with fewer
opportunities for reward. 3. n. The most fun you can have with your clothes
on (although clothes are not mandatory). propeller head: n. Used by hackers,
this is syn. with {computer geek}. Non-hackers sometimes use it to describe
all techies. Prob. derives from SF fandom's tradition (originally invented by
old-time fan Ray Faraday Nelson) of propeller beanies as fannish insignia
(though nobody actually wears them except as a joke). proprietary: adj. 1. In
{marketroid}-speak, superior; implies a product imbued with exclusive magic
by the unmatched brilliance of their employer's hardware or software
designers. 2. In the language of hackers and users, inferior; implies a
product not conforming to open-systems standards, and thus one which puts the
customer at the mercy of a vendor able to gouge freely on service and upgrade
charges after the initial sale has locked the customer in (that's assuming it
wasn't too expensive in the first place). protocol: n. As used by hackers,
this never refers to niceties about the proper form for addressing letters to
the Papal Nuncio or the order in which one should use the forks in a
Russian-style place setting; hackers don't care about such things. It is used
instead to describe any set of rules that allow different machines or pieces
of software to coordinate with each other without ambiguity. So for example,
it does include niceties about the proper form for addressing packets on a
network or the order in which one should use the forks in the Dining
Philosophers Problem. It implies that there's some common message format and
accepted set of primitives or commands that all parties involved understand,
and that transactions among them follow predictable logical sequences. see
also {handshaking}, {do protocol}. provocative maintenance: [common ironic
mutation of `preventive maintenance'] n. Actions performed upon a machine at
regularly scheduled intervals to insure that the system remains in a usable
state. So called because its all too frequently performed by a {field
servoid} who doesn't know what he is doing; this results in the machine
remaining in an *un*usable state for an indeterminate amount of time.
prowler: [UNIX] n. A {daemon} that is run periodically (typically once a
week) to seek out and erase core files (see {core}), truncate administrative
logfiles, nuke `lost+found' directories, and otherwise clean up the {cruft}
that tends to pile up in the corners of a file system. see also {GFR},
{reaper}, {skulker}. pseudo: /soo'doh/ [USENET] n. 1. An electronic-mail or
{USENET} persona adopted by a human for amusement value or as a means of
avoiding negative repercussions of his/her net.behavior; a `nom de USENET',
often associated with forged postings designed to conceal message origins.
Perhaps the best-known and funniest hoax of this type is {BIFF}. 2.
Notionally, a {flamage}-generating AI program simulating a USENET user. Many
flamers have been accused of actually being such entities, despite the fact
that no AI program of the required sophistication exists. However, in 1989
there was a famous series of forged postings that used a
phrase-frequency-based travesty generator to simulate the styles of several
well-known flamers based on large samples of their back postings (compare
{Dissociated Press}). A significant number of people were fooled by these,
and the debate over their authenticity was only settled when the perpetrator
of the hoax came forward to publicly admit the deed. pseudoprime: n. A
backgammon prime (six consecutive occupied points) with one point missing.
This term is an esoteric pun derived from a mathematical method which, rather
than determining precisely whether a number is prime (has no divisors), uses
a statistical technique to decide whether the number is `probably' prime. A
number that passes this test is called a pseudoprime. The hacker backgammon
usage stems from the idea that a pseudoprime is almost as good as a prime: it
does the job of a prime until proven otherwise, and that probably won't
happen. pseudosuit: n. A {suit} wannabee; a hacker who's decided that he
wants to be in management or administration and begins wearing ties, sport
coats, and (shudder!) suits voluntarily. It's his funeral.... see also
{lobotomy}. psychedelicware: /sie`k*-del'-ik-weir/ [Great Britain] n. Syn.
{display hack}. see also {smoking clover}. psyton: [TMRC] n. Elementary
particle carrying the sinister force. The probability of a process losing is
proportional to the number of psytons falling on it. [This term appears to
have been largely superseded by {bogon} -- ESR] pubic directory: [NYU] (also
`pube directory' /pyoob/) n. The `pub' (public) directory on a machine that
allows {FTP} access. So called because it is the default location for {SEX}
(sense #1). "I'll have the source in the /pyoob/ directory by Friday." puff:
vt. To decompress data that has been crunched by Huffman coding. At least one
widely distributed Huffman decoder program was actually *named* `PUFF', but
these days it is usually packaged with the encoder. Oppose {huff}. punched
card:: alt. `punch card' [techspeak] n.obs. The signature medium of
computing's {Stone Age}, now obsolescent outside of some IBM shops. The
punched card actually predated computers considerably, originating as a
control device for mechanical looms. The version patented by Hollerith and
used with mechanical tabulating machines in the 1890 U.S. Census was a piece
of cardboard about 90 mm by 215 mm, designed to fit exactly in the currency
trays used for that era's larger dollar bills. IBM (which originated as a
tabulating-machine manufacturer) married the punched card to computers,
encoding binary information as patterns of small rectangular holes; one
character per column, 80 columns per card. Later, other coding schemes, sizes
of card, and hole shape were tried. The 80-column width of most character
terminals is a legacy of the punched card; so is the size of the quick
reference cards distributed with many varieties of computers even today. see
{chad}, {chad box}, {eighty-column mind}, {green card}, {dusty deck}, {lace
card}, {card walloper}. punt: [from the punch line of an old joke referring
to American football: "Drop back 15 yards and punt"] vt. 1. To give up,
typically without any intention of retrying. "Let's punt the movie tonight."
"I was going to hack all night to get this feature in, but I decided to
punt." may mean that you've decided not to stay up all night, and may also
mean you're not ever even going to put in the feature. 2. More specifically,
to give up on figuring out what the {Right Thing} is and resort to an
inefficient hack. 3. A design decision to defer solving a problem, typically
because one cannot define what is desirable sufficiently well to frame an
algorithmic solution. "No way to know what the right form to to dump the
graph in is --- we'll punt that for now." 4. To hand a tricky implementation
problem off to some other section of the design. "It's too hard to get the
compiler to do that; let's punt to the runtime system." Purple Book: n. The
`System V Interface Definition'. The covers of the first editions were an
amazingly nauseating shade of off-lavender. see also {{book titles}}. push:
[from the operation that puts the current information on a stack, and the
fact that procedure return addresses are saved on the stack] Also PUSH or
PUSHJ /push-jay/ (the latter based on the PDP-10 procedure call instruction).
1. To put something onto a {stack} or {pdl}. If a person says something has
been pushed onto his stack, it means the Damoclean list lof things hanging
over his head has grown longer and heavier yet. This may also imply that he
will deal with it *before* other pending items; otherwise he might say the
thing was "added to his queue". 2. vi. To enter upon a digression, to save
the current discussion for later. Antonym of {pop}; see also {stack}, {pdl}.
= Q = ===== quad: n. 1. Two bits; syn. for {quarter}, {crumb}, {tayste}. 2. A
four-pack of anything (compare {hex}, sense #2). 3. The rectangle or box
glyph used in the APL language for various arcane purposes mostly related to
I/O. Ex-Ivy-Leaguers and Oxbridge types are said to associate it with
nostalgic memories of dear old University. quadruple bucky: n., obs. 1. On an
MIT {space-cadet keyboard}, use of all four of the shifting keys control,
meta, hyper, and super while typing a character key. 2. On a Stanford or MIT
keyboard in {raw mode}, use of four shift keys while typing a fifth
character, where the four shift keys are the control and meta keys on *both*
sides of the keyboard. This was very difficult to do! One accepted technique
was to press the left-control and left-meta keys with your left hand, the
right-control and right-meta keys with your right hand, and the fifth key
with your nose. Quadruple-bucky combinations were very seldom used in
practice, because when one invented a new command one usually assigned it to
some character that was easier to type. If you want to imply that a program
has ridiculously many commands or features, you can say something like "Oh,
the command that makes it spin the tapes while whistling Beethoven's 5th
Symphony is quadruple-bucky-cokebottle." see {double bucky}, {bucky bits},
{cokebottle}. quantifiers:: n. In techspeak and jargon, the standard metric
prefixes used in scientific measurement have dual uses. With units of time or
things that come in powers of 10, such as money, they retain their usual
meanings of multiplication by powers of `1000 = 10 ^ 3'. But when used with
bytes or other things that naturally come in powers of 2, they usually denote
multiplication by powers of `1024 = 2 ^ 10'. Here are the magnifying prefixes
in jargon use: prefix decimal binary kilo- 1000^1 1024^1 = 2^10 = 1,024 mega-
1000^2 1024^2 = 2^20 = 1,048,576 giga- 1000^3 1024^3 = 2^30 = 1,073,741,824
tera- 1000^4 1024^4 = 2^40 = 1,099,511,627,776 peta- 1000^5 1024^5 = 2^50 =
1,125,899,906,842,624 exa- 1000^6 1024^6 = 2^60 = 1,152,921,504,606,846,976
Here are the fractional prefixes: {prefix decimal jargon usage} milli-
1000^-1 (not used in jargon) micro- 1000^-2 small or human-scale (see
{micro-}) nano- 1000^-3 even smaller (see {nano-}) pico- 1000^-4 even smaller
yet (see {pico-}) femto- 1000^-5 (not used in jargon -- yet) femto- 1000^-6
(not used in jargon -- yet) The binary peta- and exa- loadings are not yet in
common use, and the prefix milli- denoting multiplication by `1000^-1' has
always been rare. see the entries on {micro-}, {pico-}, and {nano-} for more
information on connotative jargon use of these terms. The remaining standard
quantifiers are `femto' (`10 ^ -15') and `atto' (`10 ^ -18'); these,
interestingly, derive not from Greek but from Danish. They have not yet
acquired jargon loadings, though it is easy to predict what those will be
once computing technology enters the required realms of magnitude (however,
see {attoparsec}). There are, of course, some standard unit prefixes for
powers of ten. In the following table, the `decimal prefix' column is the
international standard suffix for the appropriate power of ten; the second
column lists jargon abbreviations and words for the corresponding power of 2.
The B-suffixed forms are commonly used for byte quantities; the words `meg'
and `gig' are nouns which may (but do not always) pluralize with `s'. prefix
decimal binary suffixes & words pronunciation kilo- k K, KB, /kay/ mega- M M,
MB, meg /meg/ giga- G G, GB, gig /gig/,/jig/ Confusingly, hackers often use K
as though it were a suffix or numeric multiplier rather than a prefix; thus
"2K dollars". K, M, and G used alone refer to quantities of bytes; thus, 64G
is 64 gigabytes and `a K' is a kilobyte (compare mainstream use of `a G' as
short for `a grand', that is $1000). Whether one pronounces `gig' with hard
or soft `g' depends on what one thinks the proper pronunciation of `giga-'
is. Confusion of 1000 and 1024 (or other powers of 2 and 10 close in
magnitude), for example, describing memory in units of 500K or 524K instead
of 512K, is a sure sign of the {marketroid}. quantum bogodynamics: /kwon'tm
boh`goh-die-nam'iks/ n. A theory that characterizes the universe in terms of
bogon sources (such as politicians, used-car salesmen, TV evangelists, and
{suit}s in general), bogon sinks (such as taxpayers and computers), and
bogosity potential fields. Bogon absorption, of course, causes human beings
to behave mindlessly and machines to fail (and may also cause them to emit
secondary bogons); however, the precise mechanics of the bogon-computron
interaction are not yet understood and remain to be elucidated. Quantum
bogodynamics is most frequently invoked to explain the sharp increase in
hardware and software failures in the presence of suits; the latter emit
bogons which the former absorb. see {bogon}, {computron}, {suit}. quarter: n.
Two bits. This in turn comes from the `pieces of eight' famed in pirate
movies --- Spanish gold pieces that could be broken into eight
pie-slice-shaped `bits' to make change. Early in the U.S.'s history the coin
was considered equal to a dollar, so each of these `bits' was considered
worth 12.5 cents. Syn. {tayste}, {crumb}, {quad}. Usage: rare. see also
{nickle}, {nybble}, {{byte}}, {dynner}. ques: /kwess/ 1. n. The question mark
character (`?', ASCII #b0111111). 2. interj. What? Also frequently
verb-doubled as "Ques ques?" see {wall}. quick and dirty: adj. Describes a
{crock} put together under time or user pressure. Used esp. when you want to
convey that you think the fast way might lead to trouble further down the
road. "I can have a quick-and-dirty fix in place tonight, but I'll have to
rewrite the whole module to solve the underlying design problem." see also
{kluge}. quote chapter and verse: [by analogy with the mainstream phrase] v.
To reproduce a relevant excerpt from an appropriate {bible}. "I don't care if
rn gets it wrong; `Followup-To: poster' is explicitly permitted by RFC1036.
I'll quote chapter and verse if you don't believe me." quux: /kwuhks/
Mythically, from the Latin semi-deponent verb quuxo, quuxare, quuxandum iri;
noun form variously `quux' (plural `quuces', anglicized to `quuxes') and
`quuxu' (genitive plural is `quuxuum', for four u-letters out of seven total,
using up all the `u' letters in Scrabble in one swell foop).] 1. Originally,
a metasyntactic variable like {foo} and {foobar}. Invented by Guy Steele for
precisely this purpose when he was young and naive and not yet interacting
with the real computing community. Many people invent such words; this one
seems simply to have been lucky enough to have spread a little. In an
eloquent display of poetic justice, it has returned to the originator in the
form of a nickname. 2. interj. see {foo}; however, denotes very little
disgust, and is uttered mostly for the sake of the sound of it. 3. Guy Steele
in his persona as `The Great Quux', which is somewhat infamous for light
verse and for the `Crunchly' cartoons. 4. In some circles, quux is used as a
punning opposite of `crux'. "Ah, that's the quux of the matter!" implies that
the point is *not* crucial (compare {tip of the ice-cube}). 5. quuxy: adj. Of
or pertaining to a quux. qux: /kwuhks/ The fourth of the standard
metasyntactic variables, after {baz} and before the quu(u...)x series. see
{foo}, {bar}, {baz}, {quux}. Note that this appears to be a recent mutation
from {quux}, and that many versions of the standard series just run {foo},
{bar}, {baz}, {quux}, ....