 :quantifiers:: In techspeak and jargon, the standard metric prefixes used in
the SI (Syst`eme International) conventions for scientific measurement have
dual uses. With units of time or things that come in powers of 10, such as
money, they retain their usual meanings of multiplication by powers of 1000 =
10^3. But when used with bytes or other things that naturally come in powers
of 2, they usually denote multiplication by powers of 1024 = 2^(10). Here are
the SI magnifying prefixes, along with the corresponding binary
interpretations in common use: prefix decimal binary kilo- 1000^1 1024^1 =
2^10 = 1,024 mega- 1000^2 1024^2 = 2^20 = 1,048,576 giga- 1000^3 1024^3 =
2^30 = 1,073,741,824 tera- 1000^4 1024^4 = 2^40 = 1,099,511,627,776 peta-
1000^5 1024^5 = 2^50 = 1,125,899,906,842,624 exa- 1000^6 1024^6 = 2^60 =
1,152,921,504,606,846,976 zetta- 1000^7 1024^7 = 2^70 =
1,180,591,620,717,411,303,424 yotta- 1000^8 1024^8 = 2^80 =
1,208,925,819,614,629,174,706,176 Here are the SI fractional prefixes:
*prefix decimal jargon usage* milli- 1000^-1 (seldom used in jargon) micro-
1000^-2 small or human-scale (see {micro-}) nano- 1000^-3 even smaller (see
{nano-}) pico- 1000^-4 even smaller yet (see {pico-}) femto- 1000^-5 (not
used in jargon---yet) atto- 1000^-6 (not used in jargon---yet) zepto- 1000^-7
(not used in jargon---yet) yocto- 1000^-8 (not used in jargon---yet) The
prefixes zetta-, yotta-, zepto-, and yocto- have been included in these
tables purely for completeness and giggle value; they were adopted in 1990 by
the `19th Conference Generale des Poids et Mesures'. The binary peta- and
exa- loadings, though well established, are not in jargon use either --- yet.
The prefix milli-, denoting multiplication by 1000^(-1), has always been rare
in jargon (there is, however, a standard joke about the `millihelen' ---
notionally, the amount of beauty required to launch one ship). see the
entries on {micro-}, {pico-}, and {nano-} for more information on connotative
jargon use of these terms. `Femto' and `atto' (which, interestingly, derive
not from Greek but from Danish) have not yet acquired jargon loadings, though
it is easy to predict what those will be once computing technology enters the
required realms of magnitude (however, see {attoparsec}). There are, of
course, some standard unit prefixes for powers of 10. In the following table,
the `prefix' column is the international standard suffix for the appropriate
power of ten; the `binary' column lists jargon abbreviations and words for
the corresponding power of 2. The B-suffixed forms are commonly used for byte
quantities; the words `meg' and `gig' are nouns which may (but do not always)
pluralize with `s'. prefix decimal binary pronunciation kilo- k K, KB, /kay/
mega- M M, MB, meg /meg/ giga- G G, GB, gig /gig/,/jig/ Confusingly, hackers
often use K or M as though they were suffix or numeric multipliers rather
than a prefix; thus "2K dollars", "2M of disk space". This is also true
(though less commonly) of G. Note that the formal SI metric prefix for 1000
is `k'; some use this strictly, reserving `K' for multiplication by 1024 (KB
is `kilobytes'). K, M, and G used alone refer to quantities of bytes; thus,
64G is 64 gigabytes and `a K' is a kilobyte (compare mainstream use of `a G'
as short for `a grand', that is, $1000). Whether one pronounces `gig' with
hard or soft `g' depends on what one thinks the proper pronunciation of
`giga-' is. Confusing 1000 and 1024 (or other powers of 2 and 10 close in
magnitude) --- for example, describing a memory in units of 500K or 524K
instead of 512K --- is a sure sign of the {marketroid}.