 :Real Programmer: n. [indirectly, from the book "Real Men Don't Eat Quiche"]
A particular sub-variety of hacker: one possessed of a flippant attitude
toward complexity that is arrogant even when justified by experience. The
archetypal `Real Programmer' likes to program on the {bare metal} and is very
good at same, remembers the binary opcodes for every machine he has ever
programmed, thinks that HLLs are sissy, and uses a debugger to edit his code
because full-screen editors are for wimps. Real Programmers aren't satisfied
with code that hasn't been {bum}med into a state of {tense}ness just short of
rupture. Real Programmers never use comments or write documentation: "If it
was hard to write", says the Real Programmer, "it should be hard to
understand." Real Programmers can make machines do things that were never in
their spec sheets; in fact, they are seldom really happy unless doing so. A
Real Programmer's code can awe with its fiendish brilliance, even as its
crockishness appalls. Real Programmers live on junk food and coffee, hang
line-printer art on their walls, and terrify the crap out of other
programmers -- because someday, somebody else might have to try to understand
their code in order to change it. Their successors generally consider it a
{Good Thing} that there aren't many Real Programmers around any more. For a
famous (and somewhat more positive) portrait of a Real Programmer, see "{The
Story of Mel}" in Appendix A. The term itself was popularized by a letter to
the editor in the July 1983 Datamation titled "Real Programmers Don't Use
Pascal" by Ed Post, still circulating on Usenet and Internet in on-line form.
Typing "Real Programmers Don't Use Pascal" into a web search engine should
turn up a copy.