 :RFC: /R-F-C/ n. [Request For Comment] One of a long-established series of
numbered Internet informational documents and standards widely followed by
commercial software and freeware in the Internet and Unix communities.
Perhaps the single most influential one has been RFC-822 (the Internet
mail-format standard). The RFCs are unusual in that they are floated by
technical experts acting on their own initiative and reviewed by the Internet
at large, rather than formally promulgated through an institution such as
ANSI. For this reason, they remain known as RFCs even once adopted as
standards. The RFC tradition of pragmatic, experience-driven, after-the-fact
standard writing done by individuals or small working groups has important
advantages over the more formal, committee-driven process typical of ANSI or
ISO. Emblematic of some of these advantages is the existence of a flourishing
tradition of `joke' RFCs; usually at least one a year is published, usually
on April 1st. Well-known joke RFCs have included 527 ("ARPAWOCKY", R.
Merryman, UCSD; 22 June 1973), 748 ("Telnet Randomly-Lose Option", Mark R.
Crispin; 1 April 1978), and 1149 ("A Standard for the Transmission of IP
Datagrams on Avian Carriers", D. Waitzman, BBN STC; 1 April 1990). The first
was a Lewis Carroll pastiche; the second a parody of the TCP-IP documentation
style, and the third a deadpan skewering of standards-document legalese,
describing protocols for transmitting Internet data packets by carrier
pigeon. The RFCs are most remarkable for how well they work -- they manage to
have neither the ambiguities that are usually rife in informal
specifications, nor the committee-perpetrated misfeatures that often haunt
formal standards, and they define a network that has grown to truly worldwide
proportions.