 RL: [MUD community] n. Real Life. "Firiss laughs in RL." means Firiss's
player is laughing. Oppose {VR}. roach: [Bell Labs] vt. To destroy, esp. of a
data structure. Hardware gets {toast}ed or {fried}, software gets roached.
robust: adj. Said of a system that has demonstrated an ability to recover
gracefully from the whole range of exceptional inputs and situations in a
given environment. One step below {bulletproof}. Compare {smart}, oppose
{brittle}. rococo: adj. {Baroque} in the extreme. Used to imply that a
program has become so encrusted with the software equivalent of gold leaf and
curlicues that they have completely swamped the underlying design. Called
after the later and more extreme forms of Baroque architecture and decoration
prevalent during the mid-1700s in Europe. Fred Brooks (the man who coined
{second-system effect}) said: "Every program eventually becomes rococo, and
then rubble." rogue: [UNIX] n. Dungeons-And-Dragons-like game using character
graphics, written under BSD UNIX and subsequently ported to other UNIX
systems. The original BSD `curses(3)' screen-handling package was hacked
together by Ken Arnold to support `rogue(6)' and has since become one of
UNIX's most important and heavily used application libraries. Nethack, Omega,
Larn, and an entire subgenre of computer dungeon games all took off from the
inspiration provided by `rogue(6)'. see {nethack}. room-temperature IQ: [IBM]
quant. 80 or below. Used in describing the expected intelligence range of the
{luser}. As in "Well, but how's this interface gonna play with the
room-temperature IQ crowd?" see {drool-proof paper}. This is a much more
insulting phrase in countries that use Celsius thermometers. root: [UNIX] n.
1. The {superuser} account that ignores permission bits, user number zero on
a UNIX system. This account has the user name `root'. The term {avatar} is
also used. 2. The top node of the system directory structure (home directory
of the root user). 3. By extension, the privileged system-maintenance login
on any OS. see {root mode}. root mode: n. Syn. with {wizard mode} or `wheel
mode'. Like these, it is often generalized to describe privileged states in
systems other than OSes. rot13: /rot ther'teen/ [USENET, from `rotate
alphabet 13 places'] n.,v. The simple Caesar-cypher encryption that replaces
each English letter with the one 13 places forward or back along the
alphabet, so that "The butler did it!" becomes "Gur ohgyre qvq vg!" Most
USENET news reading and posting programs include a rot13 feature. It is used
to enclose the text in a sealed wrapper that the reader must choose to open,
e.g. for posting things that might offend some readers or answers to puzzles
and the like. A major advantage of rot13 over rot(N) for other N is that it
is self-inverse --- thus the same code can be used for encoding and decoding.
rotary debugger: [Commodore] n. Essential equipment for those late night or
early morning debugging sessions. Mainly used as sustenance for the hacker.
Comes in many decorator colors such as Sausage, Pepperoni, and Garbage. see
{pizza, ANSI standard}.