 ARCCOS, ARCTAN." The last five words were the first five functions in the
appropriate chapter of the Algol manual; note the special pronunciations
/obz/ and /ark'sin/ rather than the more common /ahbz/ and /ark'si:n/. Using
an alarm clock to warn of 11:08's arrival was {considered harmful}.
:religious issues: n. Questions which seemingly cannot be raised without
touching off {holy wars}, such as "What is the best operating system (or
editor, language, architecture, shell, mail reader, news reader)?", "What
about that Heinlein guy, eh?", "What should we add to the new Jargon File?"
see {holy wars}; see also {theology}, {bigot}. This term is a prime example
of {ha ha only serious}. People actually develop the most amazing and
religiously intense attachments to their tools, even when the tools are
intangible. The most constructive thing one can do when one stumbles into the
crossfire is mumble {Get a life!} and leave -- unless, of course, one's _own_
unassailably rational and obviously correct choices are being slammed.
:replicator: n. Any construct that acts to produce copies of itself; this
could be a living organism, an idea (see {meme}), a program (see {quine},
{worm}, {wabbit}, {fork bomb}, and {virus}), a pattern in a cellular
automaton (see {life}, sense 1), or (speculatively) a robot or {nanobot}. It
is even claimed by some that {{Unix}} and {C} are the symbiotic halves of an
extremely successful replicator; see {Unix conspiracy}. :reply: n. see
{followup}. :restriction: n. A {bug} or design error that limits a program's
capabilities, and which is sufficiently egregious that nobody can quite work
up enough nerve to describe it as a {feature}. Often used (esp. by
{marketroid} types) to make it sound as though some crippling bogosity had
been intended by the designers all along, or was forced upon them by arcane
technical constraints of a nature no mere user could possibly comprehend
(these claims are almost invariably false). Old-time hacker Joseph M.
Newcomer advises that whenever choosing a quantifiable but arbitrary
restriction, you should make it either a power of 2 or a power of 2 minus 1.
If you impose a limit of 107 items in a list, everyone will know it is a
random number -- on the other hand, a limit of 15 or 16 suggests some deep
reason (involving 0- or 1-based indexing in binary) and you will get less
{flamage} for it. Limits which are round numbers in base 10 are always
especially suspect. :retcon: /ret'kon/ [short for `retroactive continuity',
from the Usenet newsgroup rec.arts.comics] 1. n. The common situation in pulp
fiction (esp. comics or soap operas) where a new story `reveals' things about
events in previous stories, usually leaving the `facts' the same (thus
preserving continuity) while completely changing their interpretation. For
example, revealing that a whole season of "Dallas" was a dream was a retcon.
2. vt. To write such a story about a character or fictitious object. "Byrne
has retconned Superman's cape so that it is no longer unbreakable."
"Marvelman's old adventures were retconned into synthetic dreams." "Swamp
Thing was retconned from a transformed person into a sentient vegetable."
"Darth Vader was retconned into Luke Skywalker's father in "The Empire
Strikes Back". [This term is included because it is a good example of hackish
linguistic innovation in a field completely unrelated to computers. The word
`retcon' will probably spread through comics fandom and lose its association
with hackerdom within a couple of years; for the record, it started here.
--ESR] [1993 update: some comics fans on the net now claim that retcon was
independently in use in comics fandom before rec.arts.comics. In
lexicography, nothing is ever simple. --ESR] :RETI: v. Syn. {RTI}
:retrocomputing: /ret'-roh-k*m-pyoo'ting/ n. Refers to emulations of
way-behind-the-state-of-the-art hardware or software, or implementations of
never-was-state-of-the-art; esp. if such implementations are elaborate
practical jokes and/or parodies, written mostly for {hack value}, of more
`serious' designs. Perhaps the most widely distributed retrocomputing utility
was the `pnch(6)' or `bcd(6)' program on V7 and other early Unix versions,
which would accept up to 80 characters of text argument and display the
corresponding pattern in {{punched card}} code. Other well-known
retrocomputing hacks have included the programming language {INTERCAL}, a
{JCL}-emulating shell for Unix, the card-punch-emulating editor named 029,
and various elaborate PDP-11 hardware emulators and RT-11 OS emulators
written just to keep an old, sourceless {Zork} binary running. A tasty
selection of retrocomputing programs are made available at the Retrocomputing
Museum, `http://www.ccil.org/retro'. :return from the dead: v. To regain
access to the net after a long absence. Compare {person of no account}. :RFC:
/R-F-C/ n. [Request For Comment] One of a long-established series of numbered
Internet informational documents and standards widely followed by commercial
software and freeware in the Internet and Unix communities. Perhaps the
single most influential one has been RFC-822 (the Internet mail-format
standard). The RFCs are unusual in that they are floated by technical experts
acting on their own initiative and reviewed by the Internet at large, rather
than formally promulgated through an institution such as ANSI. For this
reason, they remain known as RFCs even once adopted as standards. The RFC
tradition of pragmatic, experience-driven, after-the-fact standard writing
done by individuals or small working groups has important advantages over the
more formal, committee-driven process typical of ANSI or ISO. Emblematic of
some of these advantages is the existence of a flourishing tradition of
`joke' RFCs; usually at least one a year is published, usually on April 1st.
Well-known joke RFCs have included 527 ("ARPAWOCKY", R. Merryman, UCSD; 22
June 1973), 748 ("Telnet Randomly-Lose Option", Mark R. Crispin; 1 April
1978), and 1149 ("A Standard for the Transmission of IP Datagrams on Avian
Carriers", D. Waitzman, BBN STC; 1 April 1990). The first was a Lewis Carroll
pastiche; the second a parody of the TCP-IP documentation style, and the
third a deadpan skewering of standards-document legalese, describing
protocols for transmitting Internet data packets by carrier pigeon. The RFCs
are most remarkable for how well they work -- they manage to have neither the
ambiguities that are usually rife in informal specifications, nor the
committee-perpetrated misfeatures that often haunt formal standards, and they
define a network that has grown to truly worldwide proportions. :RFE: /R-F-E/
n. 1. [techspeak] Request For Enhancement (compare {RFC}). 2. [from `Radio
Free Europe', Bellcore and Sun] Radio Free Ethernet, a system (originated by
Peter Langston) for broadcasting audio among Sun SPARCstations over the
ethernet. :rib site: n. [by analogy with {backbone site}] A machine that has
an on-demand high-speed link to a {backbone site} and serves as a regional
distribution point for lots of third-party traffic in email and Usenet news.
Compare {leaf site}, {backbone site}. :rice box: n. [from ham radio slang]
Any Asian-made commodity computer, esp. an 80x86-based machine built to IBM
PC-compatible ISA or EISA-bus standards. :Right Thing: n. That which is
_compellingly_ the correct or appropriate thing to use, do, say, etc. Often
capitalized, always emphasized in speech as though capitalized. Use of this
term often implies that in fact reasonable people may disagree. "What's the
right thing for LISP to do when it sees `(mod a 0)'? Should it return `a', or
give a divide-by-0 error?" Oppose {Wrong Thing}. :rip: v. 1. To extract the
digital representation of a piece of music from an audio CD. Software that
does this is often called a "CD ripper". 2. [Amiga hackers] To extract sound
or graphics from a program that they have been compiled/assembled into, or
which generates them at run-time. In the case of older Amiga games this
entails searching through memory shortly after a reboot. This sense has been
in use for many years and probably gave rise to the (now more common) sense
1. :ripoff: n. Synonym for {chad}, sense 1. :RL: // n. [MUD community] Real
Life. "Firiss laughs in RL" means that Firiss's player is laughing. Compare
{meatspace}; oppose {VR}. :roach: vt. [Bell Labs] To destroy, esp. of a data
structure. Hardware gets {toast}ed or {fried}, software gets roached.
:robocanceller: /roh-boh-kan'sel-*r/ A program that monitors Usenet feeds,
attempting to detect and eliminate {spam} by sending appropriate cancel
messages . Robocancellers may use the {Breidbart Index} as a trigger.
Programming them is not a game for amateurs; see {ARMM}. see also {Dave the
Resurrector}. :robot: n. see {bot}. :robust: adj. Said of a system that has
demonstrated an ability to recover gracefully from the whole range of
exceptional inputs and situations in a given environment. One step below
{bulletproof}. Carries the additional connotation of elegance in addition to
just careful attention to detail. Compare {smart}, oppose {brittle}. :rococo:
adj. Terminally {baroque}. Used to imply that a program has become so
encrusted with the software equivalent of gold leaf and curlicues that they
have completely swamped the underlying design. Called after the later and
more extreme forms of Baroque architecture and decoration prevalent during
the mid-1700s in Europe. Alan Perlis said: "Every program eventually becomes
rococo, and then rubble." Compare {critical mass}. :rogue: 1. [Unix] n. A
Dungeons-and-Dragons-like game using character graphics, written under BSD
Unix and subsequently ported to other Unix systems. The original BSD
`curses(3)' screen-handling package was hacked together by Ken Arnold
primarily to support games, and the development of `rogue(6)' popularized its
use; it has since become one of Unix's most important and heavily used
application libraries. Nethack, Omega, Larn, Angband, and an entire subgenre
of computer dungeon games (all known as `roguelikes') all took off from the
inspiration provided by `rogue(6)'; the popular Windows game Diablo, though
graphics-intensive, has very similar play logic. see also {nethack}. 2.
[Usenet] adj. An {ISP} which permits net abuse (usually in the form of
{spam}ming) by its customers, or which itself engages in such activities.
Rogue ISPs are sometimes subject to {IDP}s or {UDP}s. Sometimes deliberately
mispelled as "rouge". see also {nethack}, {moria}, {Angband}.
:room-temperature IQ: quant. [IBM] 80 or below (nominal room temperature is
72 degrees Fahrenheit, 22 degrees Celsius). Used in describing the expected
intelligence range of the {luser}. "Well, but how's this interface going to
play with the room-temperature IQ crowd?" see {drool-proof paper}. This is a
much more insulting phrase in countries that use Celsius thermometers. :root:
n. [Unix] 1. The {superuser} account (with user name `root') that ignores
permission bits, user number 0 on a Unix system. The term {avatar} is also
used. 2. The top node of the system directory structure; historically the
home directory of the root user, but probably named after the root of an
(inverted) tree. 3. By extension, the privileged system-maintenance login on
any OS. see {root mode}, {go root}, see also {wheel}. :root mode: n. Syn.
with {wizard mode} or `wheel mode'. Like these, it is often generalized to
describe privileged states in systems other than OSes. :rot13: /rot
ther'teen/ n.,v. [Usenet: from `rotate alphabet 13 places'] The simple
Caesar-cypher encryption that replaces each English letter with the one 13
places forward or back along the alphabet, so that "The butler did it!"
becomes "Gur ohgyre qvq vg!" Most Usenet news reading and posting programs
include a rot13 feature. It is used to enclose the text in a sealed wrapper
that the reader must choose to open -- e.g., for posting things that might
offend some readers, or {spoiler}s. A major advantage of rot13 over rot(N)
for other N is that it is self-inverse, so the same code can be used for
encoding and decoding. see also {spoiler space}, which has partly displaced
rot13 since non-Unix-based newsreaders became common. :rotary debugger: n.
[Commodore] Essential equipment for those late-night or early-morning
debugging sessions. Mainly used as sustenance for the hacker. Comes in many
decorator colors, such as Sausage, Pepperoni, and Garbage. see {ANSI standard
pizza}. :round tape: n. Industry-standard 1/2-inch magnetic tape (7- or
9-track) on traditional circular reels. see {macrotape}, oppose {square
tape}. :RSN: /R-S-N/ adj. see {Real Soon Now}. :RTBM: /R-T-B-M/ imp. [Unix]
Commonwealth Hackish variant of {RTFM}; expands to `Read The Bloody Manual'.
RTBM is often the entire text of the first reply to a question from a
{newbie}; the _second_ would escalate to "RTFM". :RTFAQ: /R-T-F-A-Q/ imp.
[Usenet: primarily written, by analogy with {RTFM}] Abbrev. for `Read the
FAQ!', an exhortation that the person addressed ought to read the newsgroup's
{FAQ list} before posting questions. :RTFB: /R-T-F-B/ imp. [Unix]
Abbreviation for `Read The Fucking Binary'. Used when neither documentation
nor source for the problem at hand exists, and the only thing to do is use
some debugger or monitor and directly analyze the assembler or even the
machine code. "No source for the buggy port driver? Aaargh! I _hate_
proprietary operating systems. Time to RTFB." Of the various RTF? forms,
`RTFB' is the least pejorative against anyone asking a question for which
RTFB is the answer; the anger here is directed at the absence of both source
_and_ adequate documentation. :RTFM: /R-T-F-M/ imp. [Unix] Abbreviation for
`Read The Fucking Manual'. 1. Used by {guru}s to brush off questions they
consider trivial or annoying. Compare {Don't do that then!}. 2. Used when
reporting a problem to indicate that you aren't just asking out of
{randomness}. "No, I can't figure out how to interface Unix to my toaster,
and yes, I have RTFM." Unlike sense 1, this use is considered polite. see
also {FM}, {RTFAQ}, {RTFB}, {RTFS}, {STFW}, {RTM}, all of which mutated from
RTFM, and compare {UTSL}. :RTFS: /R-T-F-S/ [Unix] 1. imp. Abbreviation for
`Read The Fucking Source'. Variant form of {RTFM}, used when the problem at
hand is not necessarily obvious and not answerable from the manuals -- or the
manuals are not yet written and maybe never will be. For even trickier
situations, see {RTFB}. Unlike RTFM, the anger inherent in RTFS is not
usually directed at the person asking the question, but rather at the people
who failed to provide adequate documentation. 2. imp. `Read The Fucking
Standard'; this oath can only be used when the problem area (e.g., a language
or operating system interface) has actually been codified in a ratified
standards document. The existence of these standards documents (and the
technically inappropriate but politically mandated compromises that they
inevitably contain, and the impenetrable {legalese} in which they are
invariably written, and the unbelievably tedious bureaucratic process by
which they are produced) can be unnerving to hackers, who are used to a
certain amount of ambiguity in the specifications of the systems they use.
(Hackers feel that such ambiguities are acceptable as long as the {Right
Thing} to do is obvious to any thinking observer; sadly, this casual attitude
towards specifications becomes unworkable when a system becomes popular in
the {Real World}.) Since a hacker is likely to feel that a standards document
is both unnecessary and technically deficient, the deprecation inherent in
this term may be directed as much against the standard as against the person
who ought to read it. :RTI: /R-T-I/ interj. The mnemonic for the `return from
interrupt' instruction on many computers including the 6502 and 6800. The
variant `RETI' is found among former Z80 hackers (almost nobody programs
these things in assembler anymore). Equivalent to "Now, where was I?" or used
to end a conversational digression. see {pop}; see also {POPJ}. :RTM: /R-T-M/
[Usenet: abbreviation for `Read The Manual'] 1. Politer variant of {RTFM}. 2.
Robert Tappan Morris, perpetrator of the great Internet worm of 1988 (see
{Great Worm}); villain to many, naive hacker gone wrong to a few. Morris
claimed that the worm that brought the Internet to its knees was a benign
experiment that got out of control as the result of a coding error. After the
storm of negative publicity that followed this blunder, Morris's username on
ITS was hacked from RTM to {RTFM}. :RTS: /R-T-S/ imp. Abbreviation for `Read
The Screen'. Mainly used by hackers in the microcomputer world. Refers to
what one would like to tell the {suit} one is forced to explain an extremely
simple application to. Particularly appropriate when the suit failed to
notice the `Press any key to continue' prompt, and wishes to know `why won't
it do anything'. Also seen as `RTFS' in especially deserving cases. :rude:
[WPI] adj. 1. (of a program) Badly written. 2. Functionally poor, e.g., a
program that is very difficult to use because of gratuitously poor (random?)
design decisions. Oppose {cuspy}.