 :RTFS: /R·T·F·S/ [Unix] 1. imp. Abbreviation for `Read The Fucking Source'.
Variant form of {RTFM}, used when the problem at hand is not necessarily
obvious and not answerable from the manuals -- or the manuals are not yet
written and maybe never will be. For even trickier situations, see {RTFB}.
Unlike RTFM, the anger inherent in RTFS is not usually directed at the person
asking the question, but rather at the people who failed to provide adequate
documentation. 2. imp. `Read The Fucking Standard'; this oath can only be
used when the problem area (e.g., a language or operating system interface)
has actually been codified in a ratified standards document. The existence of
these standards documents (and the technically inappropriate but politically
mandated compromises that they inevitably contain, and the impenetrable
{legalese} in which they are invariably written, and the unbelievably tedious
bureaucratic process by which they are produced) can be unnerving to hackers,
who are used to a certain amount of ambiguity in the specifications of the
systems they use. (Hackers feel that such ambiguities are acceptable as long
as the {Right Thing} to do is obvious to any thinking observer; sadly, this
casual attitude towards specifications becomes unworkable when a system
becomes popular in the {Real World}.) Since a hacker is likely to feel that a
standards document is both unnecessary and technically deficient, the
deprecation inherent in this term may be directed as much against the
standard as against the person who ought to read it.