 RTM: /ahr-tee-em/ [USENET, acronym for `Read The Manual'] Politer variant of
{RTFM}. rude: [WPI] adj. 1. (of a program) Badly written. 2. Functionally
poor, e.g. a program which is very difficult to use because of gratuitously
poor (random?) design decisions. see {cuspy}. runes: pl.n. 1. Anything that
requires {heavy wizardry} or {black art} to {parse}; core dumps, JCL
commands, or even code in a language you don't have the faintest idea how to
read. Compare {casting the runes}. 2. Special display characters (for
example, the high-half graphics on an IBM PC). runic: adj. Syn. {obscure}.
VMS fans sometimes refer to UNIX as `Runix'; UNIX fans return the compliment
by expanding VMS to `Very Messy Syntax' or `Vachement Mauvais Systeme'
(French, lit. "Cowlike Bad System"). rusty iron: n. Syn. {tired iron}. It has
been claimed that this is the inevitable fate of {water MIPS}. rusty memory:
n. Mass-storage that uses iron-oxide-based magnetic media (esp. tape and the
pre-Winchester removable disk packs used in {washing machine}s). Compare
{donuts}. S - s/n ratio: n. (also `s:n ratio'). see {signal-to-noise ratio}.
Often abbreviated `SNR'. sacred: adj. Reserved for the exclusive use of
something (a metaphorical extension of the standard meaning). "Register 7 is
sacred to the interrupt handler." Often means that anyone may look at the
sacred object, but clobbering it will screw whatever it is sacred to.
Example: The comment "Register 7 is sacred to the interrupt handler"
appearing in a program would be interpreted by a hacker to mean that one part
of the program, the `interrupt handler', uses register 7, and if any other
part of the program changes the contents of register 7 dire consequences are
likely to ensue. saga: [WPI] n. A cuspy but bogus raving story dealing with N
random broken people. sagan: /say'gn/ [from Carl Sagan's TV series `Cosmos',
think `Billions and Billions'] n. A large quantity of anything. "There's a
sagan different ways to tweak EMACS." "The US Government spends sagans on
military hardware."