 :rusty wire: n. [Amateur Packet Radio] Any very noisy network medium, in
which the packets are subject to frequent corruption. Most prevalent in
reference to wireless links subject to all the vagaries of RF noise and
marginal propagation conditions. "Yes, but how good is your whizbang new
protocol on really rusty wire?". S S/N ratio sacred saga sagan SAIL
salescritter salt salt mines salt substrate same-day service samizdat samurai
sandbender sandbox sanity check Saturday-night special say scag scanno scary
devil monastery schroedinbug science-fiction fandom SCNR scram switch scratch
scratch monkey scream and die screaming tty screen screen name screen
scraping screw screwage scribble script kiddies scrog scrool scrozzle
scruffies SCSI SCSI voodoo search-and-destroy mode second-system effect
secondary damage security through obscurity SED see figure 1 segfault seggie
segment segmentation fault segv self-reference selvage semi semi-automated
semi-infinite senior bit September that never ended server SEX sex changer
shambolic link shar file sharchive Share and enjoy! shareware sharing
violation shebang shelfware shell shell out shift left (or right) logical
shim shitogram shotgun debugging shovelware showstopper shriek Shub-Internet
SIG sig block sig quote sig virus sigmonster signal-to-noise ratio silicon
silly walk silo since time T equals minus infinity sitename skrog skulker
slab slack slash slashdot effect sleep slim slop slopsucker Slowlaris slurp
slurp the robot smart smart terminal smash case smash the stack smiley smoke
smoke and mirrors smoke test smoking clover smoot SMOP smurf SNAFU principle
snail snail-mail snap snarf snarf & barf snarf down snark sneaker sneakernet
sniff snippage SO social engineering social science number sock puppet sodium
substrate soft boot softcopy software bloat software hoarding software laser
software rot softwarily softy some random X sorcerer's apprentice mode source
source of all good bits space-cadet keyboard spaceship operator SPACEWAR
spaghetti code spaghetti inheritance spam spam bait spamblock spamhaus
spamvertize spangle spawn special-case speed of light speedometer spell
spelling flame spider spider food spiffy spike spin Spinning Pizza of Death
spl splash screen splat splat out splork! spod spoiler spoiler space sponge
spoof spool spool file sporgery sport death spungle spyware squirrelcide
stack stack puke stale pointer bug Stanford Bunny star out state stealth
manager steam-powered steved STFW stir-fried random stomp on Stone Age stone
knives and bearskins stoppage store STR strided stroke strudel stubroutine
studly studlycaps stunning stupid-sort Stupids Sturgeon's Law sucking mud
sufficiently small suit suitable win suitably small Sun sun lounge sun-stools
sunspots super source quench superloser superprogrammer superuser support
surf Suzie COBOL swab swap swap space swapped in swapped out Swiss-Army
chainsaw swizzle sync syntactic salt syntactic sugar sys-frog sysadmin sysape
sysop system system mangler systems jock