 SAIL: /sayl/, not /ess ay ie el/ n. 1. Stanford Artificial Intelligence Lab.
An important site in the early development of LISP; with the MIT AI Lab, BBN,
CMU, and the UNIX community, one of the major wellsprings of technical
innovation and hacker-culture traditions (see the {WAITS} entry for details).
The SAIL machines were shut down in late May 1990, scant weeks after the MIT
AI lab's ITS cluster were officially decommissioned. 2. The Stanford
Artificial Intelligence Language used at SAIL (sense #1). It was an Algol-60
derivative with a coroutining facility and some new data types intended for
building search trees and association lists. salescritter: /sayls'kri`tr/ n.
Pejorative hackerism for a computer salesperson. Hackers tell the following
joke: Q. What's the difference between a used-car dealer and a computer
salesman? A. The used-car dealer knows he's lying. This reflects the
widespread hacker belief that salescritters are self-selected for stupidity
(after all, if they had brains and the inclination to use them, they'd be in
programming). The terms `salesthing' and `salesdroid' are also common.
Compare {marketroid}, {suit}, {droid}. salt mines: n. Dense quarters housing
large numbers of programmers working long hours on grungy projects, with some
hope of seeing the end of the tunnel in N years. Noted for their absence of
sunshine. Compare {playpen}, {sandbox}. salt substrate: [MIT] n. Collective
noun used to refer to potato chips, pretzels, saltines, or any other form of
snack food designed primarily as a carrier for sodium chloride. From the
technical term `chip substrate', used to refer to the silicon on the top of
which the active parts of integrated circuits are deposited.
same-day-service: n. Ironic term is used to describe slow response time,
particularly with respect to {MS-DOS} system calls. Such response time is a
major incentive for programmers to write programs that are not
{well-behaved}. see also {PC-ism}. sandbender: [IBM] n. A person involved
with silicon lithography and the physical design of chips. Compare
{ironmonger}, {polygon pusher}. sandbox: n. (or `sandbox, the') Common term
for the R&D department at many software and computer companies (where hackers
in commercial environments are likely to be found). Half-derisive, but
reflects the truth that research is a form of creative play. Compare
{playpen}. sanity check: n. 1. The act of checking a piece of code for
completely stupid mistakes. Implies that the check is to make sure the author
was sane when it was written; e.g., if a piece of scientific software relied
on a particular formula and was giving unexpected results, one might first
look at the nesting of parentheses or the coding of the formula, as a {sanity
check}, before looking at the more complex I/O or data structure manipulation
routines, much less the algorithm itself. Compare {reality check}. 2. A
run-time test, either validating input or ensuring that the program hasn't
screwed up internally (producing an inconsistent value or state). Saturday
night special: [from police slang for a cheap handgun] n. A program or
feature kluged together during off hours, under a deadline, and in response
to pressure from a {salescritter}. Such hacks are dangerously unreliable, but
all too frequently sneak into a production release after insufficient review.
say: vt. In some contexts, to type to a terminal. "To list a directory
verbosely, you have to say `ls -l'." Tends to imply a {newline}-terminated
command (a `sentence'). A computer may also be said to `say' things to you
even if it doesn't have a speech synthesizer, by displaying them on a
terminal in response to your commands. Hackers find it odd that this usage
confuses {mundane}s. Science-Fiction Fandom:: n. Another voluntary subculture
having a very heavy overlap with hackerdom; most hackers read SF and/or
fantasy fiction avidly, and many go to `cons' (SF conventions) or are
involved in fandom-connected activities like the Society for Creative
Anachronism. Some hacker jargon originated in SF fandom; see
{defenestration}, {great-wall}, {cyberpunk}, {h}, {ha ha only serious},
{IMHO}, {mundane}, {neep-neep}, {Real Soon Now}. Additionally, the jargon
terms {cowboy}, {cyberspace}, {de-rezz}, {go flatline}, {ice}, {virus},
{wetware}, {wirehead}, and {worm} originated in SF stories. scram switch:
[from the nuclear power industry] n. An emergency-power-off switch (see {Big
Red Switch}), esp. one positioned to be easily hit by evacuating personnel.
In general, this is *not* something you {frob} lightly; these often initiate
expensive events like Halon dumps and are installed in a {dinosaur pen} for
use in case of electrical fire or in case some luckless {field servoid}
should put 120 volts across himself while {Easter egging}. scratch: 1. [from
`scratchpad'] adj. Describes a data structure or recording medium attached to
a machine for testing or temporary-use purposes; one that can be {scribble}d
on without loss. Usually in the combining forms `scratch memory', `scratch
register', `scratch disk', `scratch tape', `scratch volume'. see {scratch
monkey}. 2. [primarily IBM] vt. To delete (as in a file). scratch monkey: n.
As in, "Before testing or reconfiguring, always mount a scratch monkey.", a
proverb used to advise caution when dealing with irreplaceable data or
devices. Used to refer to any scratch volume hooked to a computer during any
risky operation as a replacement for some precious resource or data that
might get trashed. This term preserves the memory of Mabel, the Swimming
Wonder Monkey, star of a biological research program at a great American
university. Mabel was not (so the legend goes) your ordinary monkey; the
university had spent years teaching her how to swim, breathing through a
regulator, in order to study the effects of different gas mixtures on her
physiology. Mabel suffered an untimely demise one day when a computer vendor
{PM}ed the machine controlling her regulator (see also {provocative
maintainance}). It is recorded that, after calming down an understandably
irate customer sufficiently to ascertain the facts of the matter, the
vendor's troubleshooter called up the {field circus} manager responsible and
asked him sweetly "Can you swim?". The moral is clear: when in doubt, always
mount a scratch monkey. see {scratch}. screw: [MIT] n. A {lose}, usually in
software. Especially used for user-visible misbehavior caused by a bug or
misfeature. This use has become quite widespread outside MIT. screwage:
/skroo'*j/ n. Like {lossage} but connotes that the failure is due to a
designed-in misfeature rather than a simple inadequacy or mere bug. scribble:
n. To modify a data structure in a random and unintentionally destructive
way. "Bletch! Somebody's disk-compactor program went berserk and scribbled on
the i-node table." "It was working fine until one of the allocation routines
scribbled on low core." Synonymous with {trash}; compare {mung}, which
conveys a bit more intention, and {mangle}, which is more violent and final.
scrog: /skrog/ [Bell Labs] vt. To damage, trash, or corrupt a data structure.
"The cblock got scrogged." Also reported as `skrog', and ascribed to `The
Wizard of Id' comix. Equivalent to {scribble} or {mangle} scrozzle: /skroz'l/
vt. Used when a self-modifying code segment runs incorrectly and corrupts the
running program or vital data. "The damn compiler scrozzled itself again!"