 :scratch monkey: n. As in "Before testing or reconfiguring, always mount a
{scratch monkey}", a proverb used to advise caution when dealing with
irreplaceable data or devices. Used to refer to any scratch volume hooked to
a computer during any risky operation as a replacement for some precious
resource or data that might otherwise get trashed. This term preserves the
memory of Mabel, the Swimming Wonder Monkey, star of a biological research
program at the University of Toronto. Mabel was not (so the legend goes) your
ordinary monkey; the university had spent years teaching her how to swim,
breathing through a regulator, in order to study the effects of different gas
mixtures on her physiology. Mabel suffered an untimely demise one day when a
DEC engineer troubleshooting a crash on the program's VAX inadvertently
interfered with some custom hardware that was wired to Mabel. It is reported
that, after calming down an understandably irate customer sufficiently to
ascertain the facts of the matter, a DEC troubleshooter called up the {field
circus} manager responsible and asked him sweetly, "Can you swim?" Not all
the consequences to humans were so amusing; the sysop of the machine in
question was nearly thrown in jail at the behest of certain clueless droids
at the local `humane' society. The moral is clear: When in doubt, always
mount a scratch monkey. [There is a version of this story, complete with
reported dialogue between one of the project people and DEC field service,
that has been circulating on Internet since 1986. It is hilarious and mythic,
but gets some facts wrong. For example, it reports the machine as a PDP-11
and alleges that Mabel's demise occurred when DEC {PM}ed the machine. Earlier
versions of this entry were based on that story; this one has been corrected
from an interview with the hapless sysop. --- ESR]