 :scram switch: n. [from the nuclear power industry] An emergency-power-off
switch (see {Big Red Switch}), esp. one positioned to be easily hit by
evacuating personnel. In general, this is _not_ something you {frob} lightly;
these often initiate expensive events (such as Halon dumps) and are installed
in a {dinosaur pen} for use in case of electrical fire or in case some
luckless {field servoid} should put 120 volts across himself while {Easter
egging}. (see also {molly-guard}, {TMRC}.) A correspondent reports a legend
that "Scram" is an acronym for "Start Cutting Right Away, Man" (another less
plausible variant of this legend refers to "Safety Control Rod Axe Man";
these are almost certainly both {backronym}s). The story goes that in the
earliest nuclear power experiments the engineers recognized the possibility
that the reactor wouldn't behave exactly as predicted by their mathematical
models. Accordingly, they made sure that they had mechanisms in place that
would rapidly drop the control rods back into the reactor. One mechanism took
the form of `scram technicians'. These individuals stood next to the ropes or
cables that raised and lowered the control rods. Equipped with axes or
cable-cutters, these technicians stood ready for the (literal) `scram'
command. If necessary, they would cut the cables, and gravity would
expeditiously return the control rods to the reactor, thereby averting yet
another kind of {core dump}. Modern reactor control rods are held in place
with claw-like devices, held closed by current. SCRAM switches are circuit
breakers that immediately open the circuit to the rod arms, resulting in the
rapid insertion and subsequent bottoming of the control rods.