 SCSI: n. Small Computer System Interface is a system-level interface between
a computer and intelligent devices. Typically annotated in literature with
`sexy' (/sek'see/), `sissy' /sis'ee/ and `scuzzy' (/skuhz'zee/) as
pronunciation guides --- the last being the overwhelmingly predominant form,
much to the dismay of the designers and their marketing people. One can
usually assume that a person who pronounces it /ess see ess eye/ is clueless.
search-and-destroy mode: n. Hackerism for the search-and-replace facility in
an editor, so called because an incautiously chosen match pattern can cause
{infinite} damage. second-system effect: n. (sometimes, more euphoniously,
`second-system syndrome'.) When designing the successor to a relatively
small, elegant, and successful system, there is a tendency to become
grandiose in one's success and design an {elephantine} feature-laden
monstrosity. The term was first used by Fred Brooks in his classic book `The
Mythical Man-Month'. It described the jump from a set of nice, simple,
operating monitors on the IBM 70xx series to OS/360 on the 360 series. A
similar effect can also happen in an evolving system; see {creeping
elegance}, {creeping featurism}. see also {Multics}. This version of the
jargon lexicon has been described (with altogether too much truth for
comfort) as the result of second-system effect applied to jargon-1...
secondary damage: n. When a fatal error occurs (esp. a {segfault}) the
immediate cause may be that a pointer is damaged due to a {fandango on core}.
However, this fandango may have been due to an *earlier* fandango, so no
amount of analysis will reveal (directly) how the damage occurred. "The data
structure was clobbered, but it was secondary damage." This generalizes. The
corruption resulting from N cascaded fandangoes on core is "Nth-level
damage". There is at least one case on record in which 17 hours of grovelling
with `adb' actually dug up the underlying bug behind an instance of 7th-level
damage! The hacker who accomplished this near-superhuman feat was presented
with an award by his fellows. security through obscurity: n. A name applied
by hackers to most OS vendors' favorite way of coping with security holes ---
namely, ignoring them and not documenting them and trusting that nobody will
find out about them and that people who do find out about them won't exploit
them. This never works for long and occasionally sets the world up for
disasters like the RTM worm of 1988, but once the brief moments of panic
created by such events subside most vendors are all too willing to turn over
and go back to sleep. After all, actually fixing the bugs would siphon off
the resources needed to implement the next user-interface frill on
Marketing's wish list --- besides, if they started fixing security bugs
customers might begin to *expect* it and imagine that their warranties of
merchantability gave them some sort of *right* to a system with fewer holes
in it than a shotgunned Swiss cheese, and then where would we be? Historical
note: this term was first used in the USENET newsgroup in `comp.sys.apollo'
during a campaign to get HP/Apollo to fix rampant security problems in its
UNIX-lookalike Aegis/DomainOS. They didn't change a thing. segfault: n.,vi.
Syn. {segment}, {seggie}. seggie: /seg'ee/ [UNIX] n. Shorthand for
{segmentation fault} reported from Britain. segment: /seg'ment/ vi. To
experience a {segmentation fault}. Confusingly, this is often accented on the
first syllable rather than on the second as for mainstream v. segment; this
is because it's actually a noun shorthand that has been verbed. segmentation
fault: n. [UNIX] 1. Error in which a running program attempts to access
memory not allocated to it and {core dump}s with a segment violation error.
2. To lose a train of thought or a line of reasoning. Also uttered as an
exclamation at the point of befuddlement. segv: /seg'vee/ n.,vi. Yet another
synonym for {segmentation fault}. self-reference: n. see {self-reference}.
selvage: /sel'v@j/ [from sewing] n. see {chad} (sense #1). semi: /se'mee/ or
/se'mie/ 1. n. Abbreviation for `semicolon', when speaking. "Commands to
{grind} are prefixed by semi-semi-star" means that the prefix is `;;*', not
1/4 of a star. 2. Prefix with words such as `immediately', as a qualifier.
"When is the system coming up?" "Semi-immediately." (That is, maybe not for
an hour). "We did consider that possibility semi-seriously." see also
{infinite}. senior bit: [IBM] n. Syn. {meta bit}. server: n. A kind of
{daemon} that performs a service for the requester, which often runs on a
computer other than the one on which the server runs. A particularly common
term on the Internet, which is rife with `name servers', `domain servers',
`news servers', `finger servers', and the like.