 SED: [TMRC, from `Light-Emitting Diode'] /S-E-D/ n. Smoke-emitting diode. A
{friode} that lost the war. see {LER}. segfault: n.,vi. Syn. {segment},
{seggie}. seggie: /seg'ee/ [UNIX] n. Shorthand for {segmentation fault}
reported from Britain. segment: /seg'ment/ vi. To experience a {segmentation
fault}. Confusingly, this is often pronounced more like the noun `segment'
than like mainstream v. segment; this is because it is actually a noun
shorthand that has been verbed. segmentation fault: n. [UNIX] 1. An error in
which a running program attempts to access memory not allocated to it and
{core dump}s with a segmentation violation error. 2. To lose a train of
thought or a line of reasoning. Also uttered as an exclamation at the point
of befuddlement. segv: /seg'vee/ n.,vi. Yet another synonym for {segmentation
fault} (actually, in this case, `segmentation violation'). self-reference: n.
see {self-reference}. selvage: /sel'v*j/ [from sewing] n. see {chad} (sense
1). semi: /se'mee/ or /se'mi:/ 1. n. Abbreviation for `semicolon', when
speaking. "Commands to {grind} are prefixed by semi-semi-star" means that the
prefix is `;;*', not 1/4 of a star. 2. A prefix used with words such as
`immediately' as a qualifier. "When is the system coming up?"
"Semi-immediately." (That is, maybe not for an hour.) "We did consider that
possibility semi-seriously." see also {infinite}. semi-infinite: n. see
{infinite}. senior bit: [IBM] n. Syn. {meta bit}. server: n. A kind of
{daemon} that performs a service for the requester and which often runs on a
computer other than the one on which the server runs. A particularly common
term on the Internet, which is rife with `name servers', `domain servers',
`news servers', `finger servers', and the like.