 SEX: [Sun User's Group & elsewhere] n. 1. Software EXchange. A technique
invented by the blue-green algae hundreds of millions of years ago to speed
up their evolution, which had been terribly slow up until then. Today, SEX
parties are popular among hackers and others. 2. The rather Freudian mnemonic
often used for Sign EXtend, a machine instruction found in many
architectures. The author of `The Intel 8086 Primer', who was one of the
original designers of the 8086, noted that there was originally a SEX
instruction on that processor. He says that Intel management got cold feet
and decreed that it be changed, and thus the instruction was renamed CBW and
CWD (depending on what was being extended). Amusingly, the Intel 8048 (the
microcontroller used in IBM PC keyboards) is also missing straight SEX but
has logical-or and logical-and instructions ORL and ANL. sex changer: n. Syn.
{gender mender}. shareware: n. {freeware} for which the author requests some
payment, usually in the accompanying documentation files or in an
announcement made by the software itself. Such payment may or may not buy
additional support or functionality. see {guiltware}, {crippleware}.
shelfware: n. Software purchased on a whim (by an individual user) or in
accordance with policy (by a corporation or government), but not actually
required for any particular use. Therefore, it often ends up on some shelf.
shell: [UNIX, now used elsewhere] n. 1. The command interpreter used to pass
commands to an operating system; so called because it's the part of the
operating system that interfaces to the outside world. 2. More generally, any
interface program which mediates access to a special resource or {server} for
convenience, efficiency, or security reasons; for this meaning, the usage is
usually `a shell around' whatever. This sort of program is also called a
`wrapper'. shell out: [UNIX] n. To spawn an interactive {subshell} from
within a program such as a mailer or editor. "Bang foo runs foo in a
subshell, while bang alone shells out." shift left (or right) logical: [from
any of various machines' instruction sets] 1. vi. To move oneself to the left
(right). To move out of the way. 2. imper. "Get out of that (my) seat! You
can move to that empty one to the left (right)." Usage: often used without
the `logical', or as `left shift' instead of `shift left'. Sometimes heard as
LSH /l@sh/, from the PDP-10 instruction set. shitogram: /shit'oh-gram/ n. A
*really* nasty piece of email. Compare {nastygram}, {flame}. short card: n. A
half-length IBM PC expansion card or adapter that will fit in one of the two
short slots located towards the right rear of a standard chassis (tucked
behind the floppy disk drives). see also {tall card}. shotgun debugging: n.
The software equivalent of {Easter egging}; the making of relatively
undirected changes to software in the hope that a bug will be perturbed out
of existence. This almost never works, and usually introduces more bugs.
showstopper: n. A hardware or (especially) software bug that makes an
implementation effectively unusable; one which absolutely has to be fixed
before development can go on. Opposite in connotation from its original
theatrical use, which referred to something stunningly *good*. shriek: n. see
{excl}. Occasional CMU usage, also in common use among APL fans and
mathematicians, especially category theorists. sidecar: n. 1. Syn. {slap on
the side}. Esp. used of add-ons for the late and unlamented IBM PCjr. 2. The
IBM PC compatibility box that could be bolted on to the side of an Amiga.
Designed and produced by Commodore and broke all of their design rules. If it
worked with any other peripherals it was {magic}. sig block: /sig blok/
[UNIX; often written ".sig" there] n. Short for `signature', used
specifically to refer to the electronic signature block which most UNIX mail-
and news-posting software will allow you to automatically append to outgoing
mail and news. The composition of one's sig can be quite an art form,
including an ASCII logo or one's choice of witty sayings (see {sig quote});
but many consider large sigs a waste of {bandwidth}, and it has been observed
that the size of one's sig block is usually inversely proportional to one's
longevity and level of prestige on the net. sig quote: /sig kwoht/ [USENET]
n. A maxim, quote, proverb, joke, or slogan embedded in one's {sig block} and
intended to convey something of one's philosophical stance, pet peeves, or
sense of humor. "He *must* be a Democrat --- he posted a sig quote from Dan
Quayle." signal-to-noise ratio: [from analog electronics] n. Used by hackers
in a generalization of its technical meaning. `Signal' refers to useful
information conveyed by some communications medium and `noise' to anything
else on that medium. Hence a low ratio implies that it is not worth paying
attention to the medium in question. Figures for such metaphorical ratios are
never given. The term is most often applied to {USENET} newsgroups during
{flame wars}. Compare {bandwidth}. see also {coefficient of x}. silicon: n.
Hardware, esp. ICs or microprocessor-based computer systems (compare {iron}).
Contrasted with software. silicon foundry: n. A company that {fab}s chips to
the designs of others. As of the late 1980s, the existence of silicon
foundries made it much easier for hardware-designing startup companies to
come into being. The downside of using a silicon foundry is that the distance
from the actual chip fabrication processes leads to weaker designers. This is
somewhat analogous to the use of a {HLL} versus coding in assembler. silly
walk: [from Monty Python] vi. A ridiculous procedure required to accomplish a
task. Like {grovel}, but more {random} and humorous. "I had to silly-walk
through half the /usr directories to find the maps file." silo: n. The FIFO
input-character buffer in an RS-232 line card. So called from DEC terminology
used on DH and DZ line cards for the VAX and PDP-11, presumably because it
was this storage space for fungible stuff that you put in the top and took
out the bottom. Silver Book: n. Jensen & Wirth's infamous `Pascal User Manual
and Report', so called because of the silver cover of the widely distributed
Springer-Verlag second edition of 1978 (ISBN 0-387-90144-2). see {Red Book},
{Green Book}, {Blue Book}, {White Book}, {Purple Book}, {Orange Book},
{Pink-Shirt Book}, {Dragon Book}, {Aluminum Book}. since time T equals minus
infinity: adj. A long time ago; for as long as anyone can remember; at the
time that some particular frob was first designed. Sometimes the word `time'
is omitted if there is no danger of confusing `T' as a time with {T} meaning
`yes'. see also {time T}. sitename: [UNIX/Internet] n. The unique electronic
name of a computer system, used to identify it in UUCP mail, USENET, or other
forms of electronic information interchange. The folklore interest of
sitenames stems from the creativity and humor they often display.
Interpreting a sitename is not unlike interpreting a vanity license plate;
one has to mentally unpack it, allowing for mono-case and length restrictions
and the lack of whitespace. Hacker tradition deprecates dull,
institutional-sounding names in favor of punchy, humorous, and clever
coinages (except that it is considered appropriate for the official public
gateway machine of an organization to bear the organization's name or
acronym). Mythological references, cartoon characters, animal names, and
allusions to SF or fantasy literature are probably the most popular sources
for sitenames (in roughly that order). The obligatory comment when discussing
these is Harris's Lament: "All the good ones are taken!" see also {network
address}. skulker: n. Syn. {prowler}. slap on the side: n. (also called a
{sidecar}, or abbreviated {SOTS}.) A type of external expansion marketed by
computer manufacturers (e.g. Commodore for their Amiga 500/1000 series and
IBM for the hideous failure they called `PCjr'). Various SOTS boxes provided
necessities such as memory, hard drive controllers, and conventional
expansion slots. sleep: vi. On a timesharing system, a process that
relinquishes its claim on the scheduler until some given event occurs or a
specified time delay elapses is said to `go to sleep'. slim: n. A small,
derivative change (e.g., to code). slop: n. 1. A one-sided {fudge factor},
that is, an allowance for error but only in one of two directions. For
example, if you need a piece of wire ten feet long and have to guess when you
cut it, you make very sure to cut it too long, by a large amount if
necessary, rather than too short by even a little bit, because you can always
cut off the slop but you can't paste it back on again. When discrete
quantities are involved, slop is often introduced to avoid the possibility of
a {fencepost error}. 2. n. The ratio of the size code generated by a compiler
to the size of equivalent assembler code produced by {hand-hacking}, minus 1;
i.e., the space (or maybe time) you lose because you didn't do it yourself.
This number is often used as a measure of the goodness of a compiler; slop
below 5% is very good, and 10% is usually acceptable for most purposes. With
modern compiler technology, esp. on RISC machines, the compiler's slop may
actually be *negative*; that is, humans may be unable to generate code as
good. This is one of the reasons assembler programming is no longer common.
slopsucker: n. A lowest-priority task that must wait around until everything
else has `had its fill' of machine resources. Only when the machine would
otherwise be idle is the task allowed to `suck up the slop.' Also called a
{hungry puppy}. One common variety of slopsucker hunts for large prime
numbers. Compare {background}. sluggy: /sluhg'ee/ adj. Hackish variant of
`sluggish'. Used only of people, esp. someone just waking up after a long
{gronk out}. slurp: vt. To read a large data file entirely into core before
working on it. This may be contrasted with the strategy of reading a small
piece at a time, processing it, and then reading the next piece. "This
program slurps in a 1K-by-1K matrix and does an FFT." smart: adj. Said of a
program that does the {Right Thing} in a wide variety of complicated
circumstances. There is a difference between calling a program smart and
calling it intelligent; in particular, there do not exist any intelligent
programs (yet). Compare {robust} (smart programs can be {brittle}). smart
terminal: n. A terminal that has enough computing capability to perform
useful work independently of the main computer. The development of
workstations and personal computers has made this term and the product it
describes semi-obsolescent, but one may still hear variants of the phrase
"act like a smart terminal" used to describe the behavior of workstations/PCs
with respect to programs that execute almost entirely out of a remote
{server}'s storage, using said devices as displays. Compare {glass tty}.
There's a classic quote from Rob Pike (inventor of the {blit} terminal): "A
smart terminal is not a smart*ass* terminal, but rather a terminal you can
educate." This illustrates a common design problem; the attempt to make
peripherals (or anything else) intelligent sometimes results in finicky,
rigid "special features" that become just so much dead weight if you try to
use the device in any way the designer didn't anticipate. Flexibility and
programmability, on the other hand, are *really* smart. smash case: vi. To
lose or obliterate the uppercase/lowercase distinction in text input. "MS-DOS
will automatically smash case in the names of all the files you create."
Compare {fold case}. smash the stack: [C programming] n. On many C
implementations it is possible to corrupt the execution stack by writing past
the end of an array declared auto in a routine. Code that does this is said
to `smash the stack', and can cause return from the routine to jump to a
random text address. This can produce some of the most insidious
data-dependent bugs known to mankind. Variants include `trash' the stack,
{scribble} the stack, {mangle} the stack; {mung} the stack is not used as
this is never done intentionally. see {spam}; see also {aliasing bug},
{fandango on core}, {memory leak}, {precedence lossage}, {overrun screw}.
smiley: n. see {emoticon}. smoke test: n. 1. A rudimentary form of testing
applied to electronic equipment following repair or reconfiguration in which
AC power is applied and during which the tester checks for sparks, smoke, or
other dramatic signs of fundamental failure. 2. By extension, the first run
of a piece of software after construction or a critical change. see {magic
smoke}. Note: There is an interesting parallel to this term among
typographers and printers. When punchcutting new typefaces by hand, a `smoke
test' (hold the letter in candle smoke, then press onto paper) is used to
check out new dies. smoking clover: [ITS] n. A {display hack} originally due
to Bill Gosper. Many convergent lines are drawn on a color monitor in {AOS}
mode (so that every pixel struck has its color incremented). The color map is
then rotated. The lines all have one endpoint in the middle of the screen;
the other endpoints are spaced one pixel apart around the perimeter of a
large square. This results in a striking, rainbow-hued, shimmering four-leaf
clover. Gosper joked about keeping it hidden from the FDA (the U.S.'s Food
and Drug Adminbnistration) lest it be banned.