 SOS: n.,obs. /ess-oh-ess/ 1. An infamously {losing} text editor. Once, back
in the 1960s, when a text editor was needed for the PDP-6, a hacker crufted
together a {quick and dirty} `stopgap editor' to be used until a better one
was written. Unfortunately, the old one was never really discarded when new
ones (in particular, {TECO}) came along. SOS is a descendant (`Son of
Stopgap') of that editor; SOS and many PDP-10 users gained the dubious
pleasure of its acquaintance. Since then other programs similar in style to
SOS have been written, notably the early font editor BILOS /bye'lohs/ the
Brother-In-Law Of Stopgap (the expansion `Bastard Issue, Loins of Stopgap'
has been proposed). see also {TECO}. 2. /sos/ n. Inverse of {AOS}, from the
PDP-10 instruction set. source of all good bits: n. A person from whom (or
place from which) useful information may be obtained. If you need to know
about a program, a {wizard} might be the source of all good bits. The title
is often applied to a particularly competent secretary. space-cadet keyboard:
n. The Knight keyboard, a now-legendary device used on MIT LISP machines,
which inspired several still-current jargon terms and influenced the design
of {EMACS}. It was inspired by the Stanford keyboard and equipped with no
fewer than *seven* shift keys: four keys for {bucky bits} (`control', `meta',
`hyper', and `super') and three like regular shift keys, called `shift',
`top', and `front'. Many keys had three symbols on them: a letter and a
symbol on the top, and a Greek letter on the front. For example, the `L' key
had an `L' and a two-way arrow on the top, and the Greek letter lambda on the
front. If you press this key with the right hand while playing an appropriate
`chord' with the left hand on the shift keys, you can get the following
results: L lower-case "l" shift-L upper-case "L" front-L Greek lower-case
lambda front-shift-L Greek upper-case lambda top-L two-way arrow (front and
shift are ignored) And of course each of these might also be typed with any
combination of the control, meta, hyper, and super keys. On this keyboard,
you could type over 8000 different characters! This allowed the user to type
very complicated mathematical text, and also to have thousands of
single-character commands at his disposal. Many hackers were actually willing
to memorize the command meanings of that many characters if it reduced typing
time (this attitude obviously shaped the interface of EMACS). Other hackers,
however, thought having that many bucky bits was overkill, and objected that
such a keyboard can require three or four hands to operate. see {bucky bits},
{cokebottle}, {double bucky}, {meta bit}, {quadruple bucky}.