 SPACE-CADET KEYBOARD n. The Knight keyboard, a now-legendary device used on
MIT LISP machines which inspired several still-current slang terms and
influenced the design of EMACS (q.v.). It was inspired by the Stanford
keyboard and equipped with no less than *seven* shift keys: four BUCKY BIT
(q.v.) keys (`control', `meta', `hyper', and `super') and three like the
regular shift key, called `shift', `top', and `front'. Many keys have three
symbols on them: a letter and a symbol on the top, and a Greek letter on the
front. For example, the "L" key has an "L" and a two-way arrow on the top,
and the Greek letter lambda on the front. If you press this key with the
right hand while playing an appropriate "chord" with the left hand on the
shift keys, you can get the following results: L lower-case "l" shift-L
upper-case "L" front-L Greek lower-case lambda front-shift-L Greek upper-case
lambda top-L two-way arrow (front and shift are ignored) And of course each
of these may also be typed with any combination of the control, meta, hyper,
and super keys. On this keyboard you can type over 8000 different characters!
This allows the user to type very complicated mathematical text, and also to
have thousands of single-character commands at his disposal. Many hackers
were actually willing to memorize the command meanings of that many
characters if it will reduce typing time (this view rather obviously shaped
the interface of EMACS). Other hackers, however, thought having that many
bucky bits is overkill, and object that such a keyboard can require three or
four hands to operate. see BUCKY BITS, COKEBOTTLE, META BIT.