 :spam: vt.,vi.,n. [from "Monty Python's Flying Circus"] 1. To crash a
program by overrunning a fixed-size buffer with excessively large input data.
see also {buffer overflow}, {overrun screw}, {smash the stack}. 2. To cause a
newsgroup to be flooded with irrelevant or inappropriate messages. You can
spam a newsgroup with as little as one well- (or ill-) planned message (e.g.
asking "What do you think of abortion?" on soc.women). This is often done
with {cross-post}ing (e.g. any message which is crossposted to
alt.rush-limbaugh and alt.politics.homosexuality will almost inevitably spam
both groups). This overlaps with {troll} behavior; the latter more specific
term has become more common. 3. To send many identical or nearly-identical
messages separately to a large number of Usenet newsgroups. This is more
specifically called `ECP', Excessive Cross-Posting. This is one sure way to
infuriate nearly everyone on the Net. see also {velveeta} and {jello}. 4. To
bombard a newsgroup with multiple copies of a message. This is more
specifically called `EMP', Excessive Multi-Posting. 5. To mass-mail
unrequested identical or nearly-identical email messages, particularly those
containing advertising. Especially used when the mail addresses have been
culled from network traffic or databases without the consent of the
recipients. Synonyms include {UCE}, {UBE}. 6. Any large, annoying, quantity
of output. For instance, someone on IRC who walks away from their screen and
comes back to find 200 lines of text might say "Oh no, spam". The later
definitions have become much more prevalent as the Internet has opened up to
non-techies, and to most people senses 3 4 and 5 are now primary. All three
behaviors are considered abuse of the net, and are almost universally grounds
for termination of the originator's email account or network connection. In
these senses the term `spam' has gone mainstream, though without its original
sense or folkloric freight - there is apparently a widespread myth among
{luser}s that "spamming" is what happens when you dump cans of Spam into a
revolving fan. Hormel, the makers of Spam, have published a surprisingly
enlightened position statement (http://www.spam.com/ci/ci_in.htm) on the
Internet usage.