 :spod: n. [UK] 1. A lower form of life found on {talker system}s and {MUD}s.
The spod has few friends in {RL} and uses talkers instead, finding
communication easier and preferable over the net. He has all the negative
traits of the computer geek without having any interest in computers per se.
Lacking any knowledge of or interest in how networks work, and considering
his access a God-given right, he is a major irritant to sysadmins, clogging
up lines in order to reach new MUDs, following passed-on instructions on how
to sneak his way onto Internet ("Wow! It's in America!") and complaining when
he is not allowed to use busy routes. A true spod will start any conversation
with "Are you male or female?" (and follow it up with "Got any good
numbers/IDs/passwords?") and will not talk to someone physically present in
the same terminal room until they log onto the same machine that he is using
and enter talk mode. 2. An experienced talker user. As with the defiant
adoption of the term geek in the mid-1990s by people who would previously
have been stigmatized by it, the term "spod" is now used as a mark of
distinction by talker users who've accumulated a large amount of login time.
Such spods tend to be very knowledgeable about talkers and talker coding, as
well as more general hacker activites. An unusually high proportion of spods
work in the ISP sector, a profession which allows for lengthy periods of
login time and for under-the-desk servers, or "spodhosts", upon which talker
systems are hosted. Compare {newbie}, {tourist}, {weenie}, {twink}, {terminal
junkie}, {warez d00dz}. 2. A {backronym} for "Sole Purpose, Obtain a Degree";
according to some self-described spods, this term is used by indifferent
students to condemn their harder-working fellows. 3. [Glasgow University] An
otherwise competent hacker who spends way too much time on talker systems. 4.
[obs.] An ordinary person; a {random}. This is the meaning with which the
term was coined, but the inventor informs us he has himself accepted sense 1.