 LOL laughing out loud NHOH Never Heard of Him/Her (often used in {initgame})
ROTF rolling on the floor ROTFL rolling on the floor laughing AFK away from
keyboard b4 before CU l8tr see you later MORF male or female? TTFN ta-ta for
now TTYL talk to you later OIC oh, I see rehi hello again Most of these are
not used at universities or in the Unix world, though ROTF and TTFN have
gained some currency there and IMHO is common; conversely, most of the people
who know these are unfamiliar with FOO?, BCNU, HELLOP, {NIL}, and {T}. The
{MUD} community uses a mixture of Usenet/Internet emoticons, a few of the
more natural of the old-style talk-mode abbrevs, and some of the `social'
list above; specifically, MUD respondents report use of BBL, BRB, LOL, b4,
BTW, WTF, TTFN, and WTH. The use of `rehi' is also common; in fact, mudders
are fond of re- compounds and will frequently `rehug' or `rebonk' (see
{bonk/oif}) people. The word `re' by itself is taken as `regreet'. In
general, though, MUDders express a preference for typing things out in full
rather than using abbreviations; this may be due to the relative youth of the
MUD cultures, which tend to include many touch typists and to assume
high-speed links. The following uses specific to MUDs are reported: CU l8er
see you later (mutant of `CU l8tr') FOAD fuck off and die (use of this is
generally OTT) OTT over the top (excessive, uncalled for) ppl abbrev for
"people" THX thanks (mutant of `TNX'; clearly this comes in batches of 1138
(the Lucasian K)). UOK? are you OK? Some {B1FF}isms (notably the variant
spelling `d00d') appear to be passing into wider use among some subgroups of
MUDders. One final note on talk mode style: neophytes, when in talk mode,
often seem to think they must produce letter-perfect prose because they are
typing rather than speaking. This is not the best approach. It can be very
frustrating to wait while your partner pauses to think of a word, or
repeatedly makes the same spelling error and backs up to fix it. It is
usually best just to leave typographical errors behind and plunge forward,
unless severe confusion may result; in that case it is often fastest just to
type "xxx" and start over from before the mistake. see also {hakspek},
{emoticon}. :talker system: /n./ British hackerism for software that enables
real-time chat or {talk mode}.