 TECO /tee'koh/ [acronym for Tape (later, Text) Editor and COrrector] n. 1. A
text editor developed at MIT, and modified by just about everybody. If all
the dialects are included, TECO might have been the single most prolific
editor in use before EMACS (q.v.) to which it was directly ancestral. Noted
for its powerful programming-language-like features and its incredibly hairy
syntax. It is literally the case that every possible sequence of ASCII
characters is a valid, though probably uninteresting, TECO program; one
common hacker game used to be mentally working out what the teco commands
corresponding to human names did. As an example, here is a TECO program that
takes a list of names like this: Loser, J. Random Quux, The Great Dick, Moby
sorts them alphabetically according to last name, and then puts the last name
last, removing the comma, to produce this: Moby Dick J. Random Loser The
Great Quux The program is: [1 J ^P $ L $ $ J <.-Z; .,(S,$ -D .)FX1 @F^B $K :L
I $ G1 L>$$ In fact, this very program was used to produce the second, sorted
list from the first list! The first time I tried the program it had a BUG: I
had accidentally omitted the "@" in front of "F^B", which as anyone can see
is clearly the wrong thing. It worked fine the second time. There is no space
to describe all the features of TECO, but I will note that "^P" means "sort"
and "J <.-Z; ... L>" is an idiomatic series of commands for "do once for
every line". Historical data from MRC: DEC grabbed an ancient version of MIT
TECO many years ago when it was still a TTY-oriented editor (that is, didn't
make use of display screens). By then, TECO at MIT had become a highly
display-oriented and is actually a language for writing editors, rather than
an editor. Meanwhile, the outside world's various versions of TECO remained
almost the same as the MIT version of the early 1970s. DEC recently tried to
discourage its use, but an underground movement of sorts kept it alive. DEC
later tried to force their hackers by administrative decision to use a hacked
up and generally lobotomized version of SOS instead of TECO, and they
revolted. 1990 update: TECO is now pretty much one with the dust of history,
having been replaced (both functionally and psychologically) almost
everywhere by GNU EMACS -- ESR.