 :TeX: /tekh/, n. An extremely powerful {macro}-based text formatter written
by Donald E. {Knuth}, very popular in the computer-science community (it is
good enough to have displaced Unix {troff}, the other favored formatter, even
at many Unix installations). TeX fans insist on the correct (guttural)
pronunciation, and the correct spelling (all caps, squished together, with
the E depressed below the baseline; the mixed-case `TeX' is considered an
acceptable kluge on ASCII-only devices). Fans like to proliferate names from
the word `TeX' -- such as TeXnician (TeX user), TeXhacker (TeX programmer),
TeXmaster (competent TeX programmer), TeXhax, and TeXnique. see also
{CrApTeX}. Knuth began TeX because he had become annoyed at the declining
quality of the typesetting in volumes I--III of his monumental Art of
Computer Programming (see {Knuth}, also {bible}). In a manifestation of the
typical hackish urge to solve the problem at hand once and for all, he began
to design his own typesetting language. He thought he would finish it on his
sabbatical in 1978; he was wrong by only about 8 years. The language was
finally frozen around 1985, but volume IV of The Art of Computer Programming
is not expected to appear until 2007. The impact and influence of TeX's
design has been such that nobody minds this very much. Many grand hackish
projects have started as a bit of {toolsmith}ing on the way to something
else; Knuth's diversion was simply on a grander scale than most. TeX has also
been a noteworthy example of free, shared, but high-quality software. Knuth
offers a monetary award to anyone who found and reported bugs dating from
before the 1989 code freeze; as the years wore on and the few remaining bugs
were fixed (and new ones even harder to find), the bribe went up. Though
well-written, TeX is so large (and so full of cutting edge technique) that it
is said to have unearthed at least one bug in every Pascal system it has been
compiled with.