 TLA: /tee el ay/ [Three-Letter Acronym] n. 1. Self-describing acronym for a
species with which computing terminology is infested. 2. Any confusing
acronym at all. Examples include MCA, FTP, SNA, CPU, MMU, SCCS, DMU, FPU,
TLA, NNTP. People who like this looser usage argue that not all TLAs have
three letters, just as not all four-letter words have four letters. One also
hears of `ETLA' (Extended Three Letter Acronym, pronounced /ee tee el ay/)
being used to describe four-letter acronyms. The term `SFLA' (Stupid
Four-Letter Acronym) has also been reported. see also {YABA}. toast: 1. n.
Any completely inoperable system, esp. one that has just crashed; "Uh, oh...I
think the serial board is toast." 2. vt. To cause a system to crash
accidentally, especially in a manner that requires manual rebooting. "Rick
just toasted the {firewall machine} again." toaster: n. 1. The archetypal
really stupid application for an embedded microprocessor controller; often
used in comments which imply that a scheme is inappropriate technology (but
see {elevator controller}). "{DWIM} for an assembler? That'd be as silly as
running UNIX on your toaster!" 2. A very, very dumb computer. "You could run
this program on any dumb toaster." see {bitty box}, {Get a real computer!},
{toy}, {beige toaster}. 3. A peripheral device. "I bought my box without
toasters, but since then I've added two boards and a second disk drive."
toeprint: n. A {footprint} of especially small size. toggle: vt. To change a
{bit} from whatever state it is in to the other state; to change from 1 to 0
or from 0 to 1. This probably comes from `toggle switches', such as standard
light switches, though the word `toggle' actually refers to the mechanism
that keeps the switch in the position to which it is flipped, rather than to
the fact that the switch has two positions. There are four things you can do
to a bit: set it (force it to be 1), clear (or zero) it, leave it alone, or
toggle it. (Mathematically, one would say that there are four distinct
boolean-valued functions of one boolean argument, but saying that is much
less fun than talking about toggling bits.) tool: 1. n. A program primarily
used to create other programs, such as a compiler or editor or
cross-referencing program. Oppose {app}, {operating system}. 2. [UNIX] An
application program with a simple, `transparent' (typically text-stream)
interface designed specifically to be used in programmed combination with
other tools (see {filter}). 3. [MIT] vi. To work; to study. see {hack}. 4.
[MIT] n. A student who studies too much and hacks too little. toolsmith: n.
The software equivalent of a tool-and-die specialist; one who specializes in
making the tools with which other programmers create applications.