 TMRC: /tmerk'/ n. The Tech Model Railroad Club at MIT, one of the
wellsprings of hacker culture. The 1959 `Dictionary of the TMRC Language'
compiled by Peter Samson included several terms which became basics of the
hackish vocabulary (see esp. {foo} and {frob}). By 1962, TMRC's legendary
layout was already a marvel of complexity. The control system alone featured
about 1200 relays. There were {scram switch}es located at numerous places
around the room that could be pressed if something undesirable was about to
occur, such as a train going full-bore at an obstruction. Another feature of
the system was a digital clock on the dispatch board. Normally it ran at some
multiple of real time, but if someone hit a scram switch the clock stopped
and the display was replaced with the word `FOO'. Steven Levy, in his book
`Hackers' (see the Bibliography), gives a stimulating account of those early
years. TMRC's Power and Signals group included most of the early PDP-1
hackers and the people who later bacame the core of the MIT AI Lab staff.
Thirty years later that connection is still very much alive, and this lexicon
accordingly includes a number of entries from a recent revision of the TMRC
Dictionary. to a first approximation: 1. [techspeak] When one is doing
certain numerical computations, an approximate solution may be computed by
any of several heuristic methods, then refined to a final value. By using the
starting point of a first approximation of the answer, one can write an
algorithm that converges more quickly to the correct result. 2. In jargon, a
preface to any comment that indicates that the comment is only approximately
true. The remark "To a first approximation, I feel good" might indicate that
deeper questioning would reveal that not all is perfect (e.g., a nagging
cough still remains after an illness). to a zeroth approximation: [from `to a
first approximation'] A *really* sloppy approximation; a wild guess. Compare
{social science number}. toast: 1. n. Any completely inoperable system or
component, esp. one that has just crashed and burned: "Uh, oh ... I think the
serial board is toast." 2. vt. To cause a system to crash accidentally,
especially in a manner that requires manual rebooting. "Rick just toasted the
{firewall machine} again." toaster: n. 1. The archetypal really stupid
application for an embedded microprocessor controller; often used in comments
that imply that a scheme is inappropriate technology (but see {elevator
controller}). "{DWIM} for an assembler? That'd be as silly as running UNIX on
your toaster!" 2. A very, very dumb computer. "You could run this program on
any dumb toaster." see {bitty box}, {Get a real computer!}, {toy}, {beige
toaster}. 3. A Macintosh, esp. the Classic Mac. Some hold that this is
implied by sense 2. 4. A peripheral device. "I bought my box without
toasters, but since then I've added two boards and a second disk drive."
toeprint: n. A {footprint} of especially small size. toggle: vt. To change a
{bit} from whatever state it is in to the other state; to change from 1 to 0
or from 0 to 1. This comes from `toggle switches', such as standard light
switches, though the word `toggle' actually refers to the mechanism that
keeps the switch in the position to which it is flipped rather than to the
fact that the switch has two positions. There are four things you can do to a
bit: set it (force it to be 1), clear (or zero) it, leave it alone, or toggle
it. (Mathematically, one would say that there are four distinct
boolean-valued functions of one boolean argument, but saying that is much
less fun than talking about toggling bits.) tool: 1. n. A program used
primarily to create, manipulate, modify, or analyze other programs, such as a
compiler or an editor or a cross-referencing program. Oppose {app},
{operating system}. 2. [UNIX] An application program with a simple,
`transparent' (typically text-stream) interface designed specifically to be
used in programmed combination with other tools (see {filter}). 3. [MIT:
general to students there] vi. To work; to study (connotes tedium). The TMRC
Dictionary defined this as "to set one's brain to the grindstone". see
{hack}. 4. [MIT] n. A student who studies too much and hacks too little.
(MIT's student humor magazine rejoices in the name `Tool and Die'.)
toolsmith: n. The software equivalent of a tool-and-die specialist; one who
specializes in making the {tool}s with which other programmers create
applications. see also {uninteresting}. topic drift: n. Term used on GEnie,
USENET and other electronic fora to describe the tendency of a {thread} to
drift away from the original subject of discussion (and thus, from the
Subject header of the originating message), or the results of that tendency.
Often used in gentle reminders that the discussion has strayed off any useful
track. "I think we started with a question about Niven's last book, but we've
ended up discussing the sexual habits of the common marmoset. Now *that's*
topic drift!" topic group: n. Syn. {forum}.