 :troff:: /tee'rof/ or /trof/ [UNIX] n. The gray eminence of UNIX text
processing; a formatting and phototypesetting program, written originally in
PDP-11 assembler and then in barely-structured early C by the late Joseph
Ossanna, modeled after the earlier ROFF which was in turn modeled after
Multics' RUNOFF by Jerome Saltzer (*that* name came from the expression "to
run off a copy"). A companion program, `nroff', formats output for terminals
and line printers. In 1979, Brian Kernighan modified TROFF so that it could
drive phototypesetters other than the Graphic Systems CAT. His paper
describing that work ("A Typesetter-independent TROFF," AT&T CSTR #97)
explains `troff"s durability. After discussing the program's "obvious
deficiencies --- a rebarbative input syntax, mysterious and undocumented
properties in some areas, and a voracious appetite for computer resources"
and noting the ugliness and extreme hairiness of the code and internals,
Kernighan concludes: None of these remarks should be taken as denigrating
Ossanna's accomplishment with TROFF. It has proven a remarkably robust tool,
taking unbelievable abuse from a variety of preprocessors and being forced
into uses that were never conceived of in the original design, all with
considerable grace under fire. The success of {{TeX}} and desktop publishing
systems have reduced `troff"s relative importance, but this tribute perfectly
captures the strengths that secured `troff' a place in hacker folklore;
indeed, it could be taken more generally as an indication of those qualities
of good programs which, in the long run, hackers most admire.