 :troll: 1. v.,n. [From the Usenet group alt.folklore.urban] To utter a
posting on {Usenet} designed to attract predictable responses or {flame}s;
or, the post itself. Derives from the phrase "trolling for {newbie}s" which
in turn comes from mainstream "trolling", a style of fishing in which one
trails bait through a likely spot hoping for a bite. The well-constructed
troll is a post that induces lots of newbies and flamers to make themselves
look even more clueless than they already do, while subtly conveying to the
more savvy and experienced that it is in fact a deliberate troll. If you
don't fall for the joke, you get to be in on it. see also {YHBT}. 2. n. An
individual who chronically trolls in sense 1; regularly posts specious
arguments, flames or personal attacks to a newsgroup, discussion list, or in
email for no other purpose than to annoy someone or disrupt a discussion.
Trolls are recognizable by the fact that they have no real interest in
learning about the topic at hand - they simply want to utter flame bait. Like
the ugly creatures they are named after, they exhibit no redeeming
characteristics, and as such, they are recognized as a lower form of life on
the net, as in, "Oh, ignore him, he's just a troll." Compare {kook}. 3. n.
[Berkeley] Computer lab monitor. A popular campus job for CS students. Duties
include helping newbies and ensuring that lab policies are followed. Probably
so-called because it involves lurking in dark cavelike corners. Some people
claim that the troll (sense 1) is properly a narrower category than {flame
bait}, that a troll is categorized by containing some assertion that is wrong
but not overtly controversial. see also {Troll-O-Meter}. The use of `troll'
in any of these senses is a live metaphor that readily produces elaborations
and combining forms. For example, one not infrequently sees the warning "Do
not feed the troll" as part of a followup to troll postings.