 6.866 final project"). This term seems to have been (rather logically)
independently invented multiple times in the early 1990s. :webmaster: n.
[WWW: from {postmaster}] The person at a site providing World Wide Web
information who is responsible for maintaining the public pages and keeping
the Web server running and properly configured. :web ring: n. Two or more web
sites connected by prominent links between sites sharing a common interest or
theme. Usually such cliques have the topology of a ring, in order to make it
easy for visitors to navigate through all of them. :wedged: adj. 1. To be
stuck, incapable of proceeding without help. This is different from having
crashed. If the system has crashed, it has become totally non-functioning. If
the system is wedged, it is trying to do something but cannot make progress;
it may be capable of doing a few things, but not be fully operational. For
example, a process may become wedged if it {deadlock}s with another (but not
all instances of wedging are deadlocks). see also {gronk}, {locked up},
{hosed}, {hung} (wedged is more severe than {hung}). 2. Often refers to
humans suffering misconceptions. "He's totally wedged -- he's convinced that
he can levitate through meditation." 3. [Unix] Specifically used to describe
the state of a TTY left in a losing state by abort of a screen-oriented
program or one that has messed with the line discipline in some obscure way.
There is some dispute over the origin of this term. It is usually thought to
derive from a common description of recto-cranial inversion; however, it may
actually have originated with older `hot-press' printing technology in which
physical type elements were locked into type frames with wedges driven in by
mallets. Once this had been done, no changes in the typesetting for that page
could be made. :wedgie: n. [Fairchild] A bug. Prob. related to {wedged}.
:wedgitude: /wedj'i-t[y]ood/ n. The quality or state of being {wedged}.
:weeble: /weeb'l/ interj. [Cambridge] Used to denote frustration, usually at
amazing stupidity. "I stuck the disk in upside down." "Weeble...." Compare
{gurfle}. :weeds: n. 1. Refers to development projects or algorithms that
have no possible relevance or practical application. Comes from `off in the
weeds'. Used in phrases like "lexical analysis for microcode is serious
weeds...." 2. At CDC/ETA before its demise, the phrase `go off in the weeds'
was equivalent to IBM's {branch to Fishkill} and mainstream hackerdom's {jump
off into never-never land}. :weenie: n. 1. [on BBSes] Any of a species of
luser resembling a less amusing version of {B1FF} that infests many {BBS}
systems. The typical weenie is a teenage boy with poor social skills
travelling under a grandiose {handle} derived from fantasy or heavy-metal
rock lyrics. Among sysops, `the weenie problem' refers to the marginally
literate and profanity-laden {flamage} weenies tend to spew all over a
newly-discovered BBS. Compare {spod}, {computer geek}, {terminal junkie},
{warez d00dz}. 2. [Among hackers] When used with a qualifier (for example, as
in {Unix weenie}, VMS weenie, IBM weenie) this can be either an insult or a
term of praise, depending on context, tone of voice, and whether or not it is
applied by a person who considers him or herself to be the same sort of
weenie. Implies that the weenie has put a major investment of time, effort,
and concentration into the area indicated; whether this is good or bad
depends on the hearer's judgment of how the speaker feels about that area.
see also {bigot}. 3. The semicolon character, `;' (ASCII