 UNIX weenie: [ITS] n. 1. A derogatory pun on `UNIX wizard', common among
hackers who use UNIX by necessity but would prefer alternatives. The
implication is that while the person in question may consider mastery of UNIX
arcana to be a wizardly skill, the only real skill involved is the ability to
tolerate (and the bad taste to wallow in) the incoherence and needless
complexity that are alleged to infest many UNIX programs. "This shell script
tries to parse its arguments in 69 bletcherous ways. It must have been
written by a real UNIX weenie." 2. A derogatory term for anyone who engages
in uncritical praise of UNIX. Often appearing in the context "stupid UNIX
weenie". see {Weenix}, {UNIX conspiracy}. see also {weenie}. unixism: n. A
piece of code or coding technique that depends on the protected multi-tasking
environment with relatively low process-spawn overhead that exists on UNIX
systems. Common {unixism}s include: gratuitous use of `fork(2)'; the
assumption that certain undocumented but well-known features of UNIX
libraries like `stdio(3)' are supported elsewhere; reliance on {obscure}
side-effects of system calls (use of `sleep(2)' with a zero argument to clue
the scheduler that you're willing to give up your time-slice, for example);
the assumption that freshly allocated memory is seroed, the assumption that
it's safe to never free() memory, etc. Compare {vaxocentrism}; see {New
Jersey}. unwind the stack: vi. 1. During the execution of a procedural
language one is said to `unwind the stack' from a called procedure up to a
caller when one discards the stack frame and any number of frames above it,
popping back up to the level of the given caller. In C this is done with
longjmp/setjmp, in LISP with THROW/CATCH. This is sometimes necessary when
handling exceptional conditions. see also {smash the stack}. 2. People can
unwind the stack as well, by quickly dealing with a bunch of problems: "Oh
hell, let's do lunch. Just a second while I unwind my stack". unwind-protect:
[MIT, from the name of a LISP operator] n. A task you must remember to
perform before you leave a place or finish a project. "I have an
unwind-protect to call my advisor." up: adj. 1. Working, in order. "The down
escalator is up." 2. `bring up': vt. To create a working version and start
it. "They brought up a down system." upload: /uhp'lohd/ v. 1. To transfer
code or data over a digital comm line from a smaller or peripheral `client'
system to a larger or central `host' one. A transfer in the other direction
is, of course, called a `download'. 2. [speculatively] To move the essential
patterns and algorithms which make up one's mind from one's brain into a
computer. Only those who are convinced that such patterns and algorithms
capture the complete essence of the self view this prospect with aplomb.
upthread: adv. Earlier in the discussion (see {thread}). "As Joe pointed out
upthread...." see also {followup}. urchin: n. see {munchkin}.