 11:08; ABS, ALPHABETIC, ARCSIN, ARCCOS, ARCTAN." The last five words were
the first five functions in the appropriate chapter of the Algol manual; note
the special pronunciations /obz/ and /ark'sin/ rather than the more common
/ahbz/ and /ark'si:n/. Using an alarm clock to warn of 11:08's arrival was
{considered harmful}. :religious issues: n. Questions which seemingly cannot
be raised without touching off {holy wars}, such as "What is the best
operating system (or editor, language, architecture, shell, mail reader, news
reader)?", "What about that Heinlein guy, eh?", "What should we add to the
new Jargon File?" see {holy wars}; see also {theology}, {bigot}. This term is
a prime example of {ha ha only serious}. People actually develop the most
amazing and religiously intense attachments to their tools, even when the
tools are intangible. The most constructive thing one can do when one
stumbles into the crossfire is mumble {Get a life!} and leave -- unless, of
course, one's _own_ unassailably rational and obviously correct choices are
being slammed. :replicator: n. Any construct that acts to produce copies of
itself; this could be a living organism, an idea (see {meme}), a program (see
{quine}, {worm}, {wabbit}, {fork bomb}, and {virus}), a pattern in a cellular
automaton (see {life}, sense 1), or (speculatively) a robot or {nanobot}. It
is even claimed by some that {{Unix}} and {C} are the symbiotic halves of an
extremely successful replicator; see {Unix conspiracy}. :reply: n. see
{followup}. :restriction: n. A {bug} or design error that limits a program's
capabilities, and which is sufficiently egregious that nobody can quite work
up enough nerve to describe it as a {feature}. Often used (esp. by
{marketroid} types) to make it sound as though some crippling bogosity had
been intended by the designers all along, or was forced upon them by arcane
technical constraints of a nature no mere user could possibly comprehend
(these claims are almost invariably false). Old-time hacker Joseph M.
Newcomer advises that whenever choosing a quantifiable but arbitrary
restriction, you should make it either a power of 2 or a power of 2 minus 1.
If you impose a limit of 107 items in a list, everyone will know it is a
random number -- on the other hand, a limit of 15 or 16 suggests some deep
reason (involving 0- or 1-based indexing in binary) and you will get less
{flamage} for it. Limits which are round numbers in base 10 are always
especially suspect. :retcon: /ret'kon/ [short for `retroactive continuity',
from the Usenet newsgroup rec.arts.comics] 1. n. The common situation in pulp
fiction (esp. comics or soap operas) where a new story `reveals' things about
events in previous stories, usually leaving the `facts' the same (thus
preserving continuity) while completely changing their interpretation. For
example, revealing that a whole season of "Dallas" was a dream was a retcon.
2. vt. To write such a story about a character or fictitious object. "Byrne
has retconned Superman's cape so that it is no longer unbreakable."
"Marvelman's old adventures were retconned into synthetic dreams." "Swamp
Thing was retconned from a transformed person into a sentient vegetable."
"Darth Vader was retconned into Luke Skywalker's father in "The Empire
Strikes Back". [This term is included because it is a good example of hackish
linguistic innovation in a field completely unrelated to computers. The word
`retcon' will probably spread through comics fandom and lose its association
with hackerdom within a couple of years; for the record, it started here.
--ESR] [1993 update: some comics fans on the net now claim that retcon was
independently in use in comics fandom before rec.arts.comics. In
lexicography, nothing is ever simple. --ESR] :RETI: v. Syn. {RTI}
:retrocomputing: /ret'-roh-k*m-pyoo'ting/ n. Refers to emulations of
way-behind-the-state-of-the-art hardware or software, or implementations of
never-was-state-of-the-art; esp. if such implementations are elaborate
practical jokes and/or parodies, written mostly for {hack value}, of more
`serious' designs. Perhaps the most widely distributed retrocomputing utility
was the `pnch(6)' or `bcd(6)' program on V7 and other early Unix versions,
which would accept up to 80 characters of text argument and display the
corresponding pattern in {{punched card}} code. Other well-known
retrocomputing hacks have included the programming language {INTERCAL}, a
{JCL}-emulating shell for Unix, the card-punch-emulating editor named 029,
and various elaborate PDP-11 hardware emulators and RT-11 OS emulators
written just to keep an old, sourceless {Zork} binary running. A tasty
selection of retrocomputing programs are made available at the Retrocomputing
Museum, `http://www.ccil.org/retro'. :return from the dead: v. To regain
access to the net after a long absence. Compare {person of no account}. :RFC:
/R-F-C/ n. [Request For Comment] One of a long-established series of numbered
Internet informational documents and standards widely followed by commercial
software and freeware in the Internet and Unix communities. Perhaps the
single most influential one has been RFC-822 (the Internet mail-format
standard). The RFCs are unusual in that they are floated by technical experts
acting on their own initiative and reviewed by the Internet at large, rather
than formally promulgated through an institution such as ANSI. For this
reason, they remain known as RFCs even once adopted as standards. The RFC
tradition of pragmatic, experience-driven, after-the-fact standard writing
done by individuals or small working groups has important advantages over the
more formal, committee-driven process typical of ANSI or ISO. Emblematic of
some of these advantages is the existence of a flourishing tradition of
`joke' RFCs; usually at least one a year is published, usually on April 1st.
Well-known joke RFCs have included 527 ("ARPAWOCKY", R. Merryman, UCSD; 22
June 1973), 748 ("Telnet Randomly-Lose Option", Mark R. Crispin; 1 April
1978), and 1149 ("A Standard for the Transmission of IP Datagrams on Avian
Carriers", D. Waitzman, BBN STC; 1 April 1990). The first was a Lewis Carroll
pastiche; the second a parody of the TCP-IP documentation style, and the
third a deadpan skewering of standards-document legalese, describing
protocols for transmitting Internet data packets by carrier pigeon. The RFCs
are most remarkable for how well they work -- they manage to have neither the
ambiguities that are usually rife in informal specifications, nor the
committee-perpetrated misfeatures that often haunt formal standards, and they
define a network that has grown to truly worldwide proportions. :RFE: /R-F-E/
n. 1. [techspeak] Request For Enhancement (compare {RFC}). 2. [from `Radio
Free Europe', Bellcore and Sun] Radio Free Ethernet, a system (originated by
Peter Langston) for broadcasting audio among Sun SPARCstations over the
ethernet. :rib site: n. [by analogy with {backbone site}] A machine that has
an on-demand high-speed link to a {backbone site} and serves as a regional
distribution point for lots of third-party traffic in email and Usenet news.
Compare {leaf site}, {backbone site}. :rice box: n. [from ham radio slang]
Any Asian-made commodity computer, esp. an 80x86-based machine built to IBM
PC-compatible ISA or EISA-bus standards. :Right Thing: n. That which is
_compellingly_ the correct or appropriate thing to use, do, say, etc. Often
capitalized, always emphasized in speech as though capitalized. Use of this
term often implies that in fact reasonable people may disagree. "What's the
right thing for LISP to do when it sees `(mod a 0)'? Should it return `a', or
give a divide-by-0 error?" Oppose {Wrong Thing}. :ripoff: n. Synonym for
{chad}, sense 1. :RL: // n. [MUD community] Real Life. "Firiss laughs in RL"
means that Firiss's player is laughing. Oppose {VR}. :roach: vt. [Bell Labs]
To destroy, esp. of a data structure. Hardware gets {toast}ed or {fried},
software gets roached. :robocanceller: /roh-boh-kan'sel-*r/ A program that
monitors USENET feeds, attempting to detect and elimnate {spam} by sending
appropriate cancel messages . Robocancellers may use the {Breidbart Index} as
a trigger. Programming them is not a game for amateurs; see {ARMM}. see also
{Dave the Resurrector}. :robot: n. see {bot}. :robust: adj. Said of a system
that has demonstrated an ability to recover gracefully from the whole range
of exceptional inputs and situations in a given environment. One step below
{bulletproof}. Carries the additional connotation of elegance in addition to
just careful attention to detail. Compare {smart}, oppose {brittle}. :rococo:
adj. Terminally {baroque}. Used to imply that a program has become so
encrusted with the software equivalent of gold leaf and curlicues that they
have completely swamped the underlying design. Called after the later and
more extreme forms of Baroque architecture and decoration prevalent during
the mid-1700s in Europe. Alan Perlis said: "Every program eventually becomes
rococo, and then rubble." Compare {critical mass}. :rogue: 1. [Unix] n. A
Dungeons-and-Dragons-like game using character graphics, written under BSD
Unix and subsequently ported to other Unix systems. The original BSD
`curses(3)' screen-handling package was hacked together by Ken Arnold to
support `rogue(6)' and has since become one of Unix's most important and
heavily used application libraries. Nethack, Omega, Larn, Angband, and an
entire subgenre of computer dungeon games all took off from the inspiration
provided by `rogue(6)'; the popular Windows game Diablo, though
graphics-intensive, has very similar play logic. see also {nethack}. 2.
[USENET] adj. An {ISP} which permits net abuse (usually in the form of
{spam}ming) by its customers, or which itself engages in such activities.
Rogue ISPs are sometimes subject to {IDP}s or {UDP}s. Sometimes deliberately
mispelled as "rouge". :room-temperature IQ: quant. [IBM] 80 or below (nominal
room temperature is 72 degrees Fahrenheit, 22 degrees Celsius). Used in
describing the expected intelligence range of the {luser}. "Well, but how's
this interface going to play with the room-temperature IQ crowd?" see
{drool-proof paper}. This is a much more insulting phrase in countries that
use Celsius thermometers. :root: n. [Unix] 1. The {superuser} account (with
user name `root') that ignores permission bits, user number 0 on a Unix
system. The term {avatar} is also used. 2. The top node of the system
directory structure; historically the home directory of the root user, but
probably named after the root of an (inverted) tree.