 UUCPNET: n. The store-and-forward network consisting of all the world's
connected UNIX machines (and others running some clone of the UUCP
(UNIX-to-UNIX CoPy) software). Any machine reachable via a {bang path} is on
UUCPNET. see {network address}. = V = ===== vadding: /vad'ing/ [from VAD, a
permutation of ADV (i.e. {ADVENT}), used to avoid a particular {admin}'s
continual search-and-destroy sweeps for the game] n. A leisure-time activity
of certain hackers involving the covert exploration of the `secret' parts of
large buildings --- basements, roofs, freight elevators, maintenance
crawlways, steam tunnels, and the like. A few go so far as to learn
locksmithing in order to synthesize vadding keys. The verb is `to vad'
(compare {phreaking}). The most extreme and dangerous form of vadding is
`elevator rodeo', aka `elevator surfing', a sport played by wrasslin' down a
thousand-pound elevator car with a three-foot piece of string, and then
exploiting this mastery in various stimulating ways (such as elevator
hopping, shaft exploration, rat-racing, and the ever-popular drop
experiments). Kids, don't try this at home! see also {hobbit} (sense #2).
vanilla: [from the default flavor of ice cream in the U.S.] adj. Ordinary
{flavor}, standard. When used of food, very often does not mean that the food
is flavored with vanilla extract! For example, `vanilla wonton soup' means
ordinary wonton soup, as opposed to hot and sour wonton soup. Applied to
hardware and software, as in "Vanilla Version 7 UNIX can't run on a vanilla
11/34." Also used to orthogonalize chip nomenclature; for instance, a 74V00
means what TI calls a 7400, as distinct from a 74LS00, etc. This word differs
from {canonical} in that the latter means `default', whereas vanilla simply
means `ordinary'. For example, when hackers go on a {great-wall},
hot-and-sour wonton soup is the {canonical} wonton soup to get (because that
is what most of them usually order) even though it isn't the vanilla wonton
soup. vannevar: /van'*-var/ n. A bogus technological prediction or foredoomed
engineering concept, esp. one which fails by implicitly assuming that
technologies develop linearly, incrementally, and in isolation from one
another when in fact the learning curve tends to be highly nonlinear,
revolutions are common, and competition is the rule. The prototype was
Vannevar Bush's prediction of `electronic brains' the size of the Empire
State Building with a Niagara-Falls-equivalent cooling system for their tubes
and relays, at a time when the semiconductor effect had already been
demonstrated. Other famous vannevars have included magnetic-bubble memory,
LISP machines, videotex, and a paper from the late 1970s that computed a
purported ultimate limit on areal density for ICs which was in fact less than
the routine densities of five years later. vaporware: n. Products announced
far in advance of any release (which may or may not actually take place).
var: /veir/ or /vahr/ n. Short for `variable'. Compare {arg}, {param}.