 :VAX: /vaks/ n. 1. [from Virtual Address eXtension] The most successful
minicomputer design in industry history, possibly excepting its immediate
ancestor, the PDP-11. Between its release in 1978 and its eclipse by {killer
micro}s after about 1986, the VAX was probably the hacker's favorite machine
of them all, esp. after the 1982 release of 4.2 BSD UNIX (see {BSD}). Esp.
noted for its large, assembler-programmer-friendly instruction set --- an
asset that became a liability after the RISC revolution. 2. A major brand of
vacuum cleaner in Britain. Cited here because its alleged sales pitch,
"Nothing sucks like a VAX!" became a sort of battle-cry of RISC partisans. It
is even sometimes claimed that DEC actually entered a cross-licensing deal
with the vacuum-Vax people that allowed them to market VAX computers in the
U.K. in return for not challenging the vacuum cleaner trademark in the U.S.
It is sometimes claimed that this slogan was *not* actually used by the Vax
vacuum-cleaner people, but was actually that of a rival brand called
Electrolux (as in "Nothing sucks like..."). It's been reliably confirmed that
Electrolux actually did use this slogan in the late 1960s; they're a Belgian
company, and it apparently has become a classic example (used in textbooks)
of the perils of not knowing the local idiom. It appears, however, that the
Vax people thought the slogan a sufficiently good idea to copy it. Several
British hackers report that their promotions used it in 1986--1987, and we
have one report from a New Zealander that it surfaced there in TV ads for the
product as recently as 1992!