 :virus: n. [from the obvious analogy with biological viruses, via SF] A
cracker program that searches out other programs and `infects' them by
embedding a copy of itself in them, so that they become {Trojan horse}s. When
these programs are executed, the embedded virus is executed too, thus
propagating the `infection'. This normally happens invisibly to the user.
Unlike a {worm}, a virus cannot infect other computers without assistance. It
is propagated by vectors such as humans trading programs with their friends
(see {SEX}). The virus may do nothing but propagate itself and then allow the
program to run normally. Usually, however, after propagating silently for a
while, it starts doing things like writing cute messages on the terminal or
playing strange tricks with the display (some viruses include nice {display
hack}s). Many nasty viruses, written by particularly perversely minded
{cracker}s, do irreversible damage, like nuking all the user's files. In the
1990s, viruses have become a serious problem, especially among IBM PC and
Macintosh users (the lack of security on these machines enables viruses to
spread easily, even infecting the operating system). The production of
special anti-virus software has become an industry, and a number of
exaggerated media reports have caused outbreaks of near hysteria among users;
many {luser}s tend to blame *everything* that doesn't work as they had
expected on virus attacks. Accordingly, this sense of `virus' has passed not
only into techspeak but into also popular usage (where it is often
incorrectly used to denote a {worm} or even a {Trojan horse}). see {phage};
compare {back door}; see also {UNIX conspiracy}.