 VMS: /vee em ess/ n. DEC's proprietary operating system for their VAX
minicomputer; one of the seven or so environments that loom largest in hacker
folklore. Many UNIX fans generously concede that VMS would probably be the
hacker's favorite commercial OS if UNIX didn't exist; though true, this makes
VMS fans furious. One major hacker gripe with it is its slowness, thus the
following limerick: There once was a system called VMS Of cycles by no means
abstemious. It's chock-full of hacks And runs on a VAX And makes my poor
stomach all squeamious. ---The Great Quux see also {VAX}, {TOPS-10},
{TOPS-20}, {UNIX}, {runic}. voice-net: n. Hackish way of referring to the
telephone system, analogizing it to a digital network. USENET {sig block}s
not uncommonly include the sender's phone next to a "Voice:" or "Voice-Net:"
header; common variants of this are "Voicenet" and "V-Net". Compare
{paper-net}, {snail-mail}, {wave a dead chicken}. voodoo programming: [from
George Bush's "voodoo economics"] n. The use by guess or cookbook of an
{obscure}, {hairy} system feature or algorithm which one does not truly
understand. The implication is that the technique may not work, and if it
doesn't, one will never know why. Compare {magic}, {deep magic}, {heavy
wizardry}, {rain dance}, {cargo-cult programming}. vulcan nerve pinch: n.
[From the old Star Trek TV series via Commodore Amiga hackers] The keyboard
combination that forces a soft-boot or jump to ROM monitor (on machines that
support such a feature). On many micros this is Ctrl-Alt-Del; on Suns, L1-A;
on Macintoshes, it is <Cmd>-<Power switch>! Also called {three-finger
salute}. Compare {quadruple bucky}. vulture capitalist: n. Pejorative
hackerism for `venture capitalist', deriving from the common practice of
pushing contracts that deprive inventors of both control over their own
innovations and most of the money they ought to have made from them. W -
wabbit: /wab'it/ [almost certainly from Elmer Fudd's immortal line `you
wascawwy wabbit!'] n. 1. A legendary early hack reported on a System/360 at
RPI and elsewhere around 1978. The program would reproduce itself twice every
time it was run, eventually crashing the system. 2. By extension, any hack
that includes infinite self-replication but is not a {virus} or {worm}. see
also {cookie monster}. waldo: /wol'doh/ [probably taken from the story
`Waldo', by Robert A. Heinlein, which is where the term was first used to
mean a remote mechanical agent controlled by a human limb] At Harvard
(particularly by Tom Cheatham and students) this is used instead of {foobar}
as a meta-syntactic variable and general nonsense word. see {foo}, {bar},
{foobar}, {quux}. walk: n.,vt. Traversal of an actual or {logical} data
structure, especially a linked-list data structure in {core}. see also
{codewalker}, {silly walk}, {clobber}. walking drives: n. An occasional
failure mode of magnetic-disk drives back in the days when they were huge,
clunky {washing machine}s. Those old {dinosaur} parts carried terrific
angular momentum; the combination of a misaligned spindle or worn bearings
and stick-slip interactions with the floor could cause them to `walk' across
a room, lurching alternate corners forward a couple of millimeters at a time.
There is a legend about a drive that walked over to the only door to the
computer room and jammed it shut; the staff had to cut a hole in the wall in
order to get at it! Walking could also be induced by certain patterns of
drive access (a fast seek across the whole width of the disk, followed by a
slow seek in the other direction). It is known that some bands of old-time
hackers figured out how to induce disk-accessing patterns that would do this
to particular drive models and held disk-drive races. This is not a joke!
wall: [WPI] interj. 1. An indication of confusion, usually spoken with a
quizzical tone. "Wall??" 2. A request for further explication. Compare {octal
forty}. It is said that "Wall?" really came from `talking to a blank wall'.
It was initially used in situations where, after one carefully answered a
question, the questioner stared at you blankly, having understood nothing
that was explained. One would then throw out a "Hello, wall?" to elicit some
sort of response from the questioner. Later, confused questioners began
voicing "Wall?" themselves. There is an anecdote about a child in a hospital
who is addressed by a nurse over an intercom and replies "What do you want,
Wall?" wall follower: n. A person or algorithm which compensates for native
stupidity by efficiently following procedures shown to have been effective in
the past. Used of an algorithm, this is not necessarily pejorative; it
recalls `Harvey Wallbanger', the winning robot in an early AI contest (named,
of course, after the cocktail). Harvey successfully solved mazes by keeping a
`finger' on one wall and running till it came out the other end. This was
inelegant, but mathematically guaranteed to work on simply-connected mazes
--- and, in fact, Harvey outperformed more sophisticated robots that tried to
`learn' each maze by building an internal representation of it. Used of
humans the term *is* pejorative and implies an uncreative, bureaucratic,
by-the-book mentality. see also {code grinder}. wall time: n. (also `wall
clock time') 1. `Real world' time (what the clock on the wall shows) as
opposed to the system clock's idea of time. 2. The real running time of a
program, as opposed to the number of {clocks} required to execute it (on a
timesharing system these will differ, as no one program gets all the
{clocks}). wallpaper: n. 1. A file containing a listing (e.g., assembly
listing) or transcript, esp. a file containing a transcript of all or part of
a login session. (The idea was that the LPT paper for such listings was
essentially good only for wallpaper, as evidenced at Stanford, where it was
used as such to cover windows.) Usage: not often used now, esp. since other
systems have developed other terms for it (e.g., PHOTO on TWENEX). However,
the UNIX world doesn't have an equivalent term, so perhaps {wallpaper} will
take hold there. The term probably originated on ITS, where the commands to
begin and end transcript files were :WALBEG and :WALEND, with default file
DSK:WALL PAPER. 2. The background pattern used on graphical workstations
(this is jargon under the `Windows' graphical user interface to MS-DOS). 3.
`wallpaper file' n. The file that contains the wallpaper information before
it is actually printed on paper. (Sometimes you don't intend ever to produce
a real paper copy of the file, because you can look at the file directly on
your terminal, but it is still called a `wallpaper file'.) wank: /wangk/
[Columbia University; prob. by mutation from Commonwealth slang v. "wank", to
masturbate] n.,v. Used much as {hack} (senses #5, #7, #9) is elsewhere. May
describe (negatively) the act of hacking for hacking's sake ("Quit wanking,
let's go get supper!") or (more positively) a {wizard}. Adj. `wanky'
describes something particularly clever (a person, program, or algorithm).
Conversations can also get wanky when there are too many wanks involved. This
excess wankiness is signalled by an overload of the "wankometer" (compare
{bogometer}). When the wankometer overloads, the conversation's subject must
be changed, or all non-wanks will leave. Compare `neep-neeping' (under
{neep-neep}). wannabee: [from a term recently used to describe Madonna fans
who dress, talk, and act like their idol; prob. originally from biker slang]
n. A would-be {hacker}. The connotations of this term differ sharply
depending on the age and exposure of the subject. Used of a person who is in
or might be entering {larval stage} it's semi-approving; such wannabees can
be annoying but most hackers remember that they, too were once such
creatures. When used of any professional programmer, CS academic, writer, or
{suit} it's derogatory, implying that said person is trying to cuddle up to
the hacker mystique but doesn't, fundamentally, have a prayer of
understanding what it's all about. Overuse of terms from this File is often
an indication of the {wannabee} nature. Compare {newbie}. [Historical note:
the wannabee phenomenon has a bit different flavor now (1991) than it did ten
or fifteen years ago. When the people who are now hackerdom's tribal elders
were in {larval stage}, the process of becoming a hacker was largely
unconscious and unaffected by models known in popular culture --- communities
formed spontaneously around people who, *as individuals*, felt irresistibly
drawn to do hackerly things, and what wannabees experienced was a fairly
pure, skill-focused desire to become similarly wizardly. Those days of
innocence are gone forever; society's adaptation to the advent of the
microcomputer after 1980 included the elevation of hackers as a new kind of
folk hero, and the result is that some people semi-consciously set out to *be
hackers* and borrow hackish prestige by fitting the public hacker image.
Fortunately, to do this really well one has to actually become a wizard.
Nevertheless, old-time hackers tend to share a poorly articulated disquiet
about the change; among other things, it gives them mixed feelings about the
effects of public compendia of lore like this one.] wart: n. A small, crocky
{feature} that sticks out of an otherwise {clean} design. Something
conspicuous for localized ugliness, especially a special-case exception to a
general rule. For example, in some versions of `csh(1)', single-quotes
literalize every character inside them except `!'. In ANSI C, the ?? syntax
used for escapes to foreign-language alphabets is a wart. see also {miswart}.
washing machine: n. Old-style 14" hard disks in floor-standing cabinets. So
called because of the size of the cabinet and the `top-loading' access to the
media packs --- and, of course, they were always set on `spin cycle'. The
washing-machine idiom transcends language barriers; it's even used in Russian
hacker jargon. see {walking drives}. The thick channel cables connecting
these were called `bit hoses' (see {hose}). water MIPS: n. Large,
water-cooled machines of either today's ECL-supercomputer flavor or
yesterday's traditional {mainframe} type. wave a dead chicken: v. To perform
a ritual in the direction of crashed software or hardware which one believes
to be futile but is nevertheless necessary so that others are satisfied that
an appropriate degree of effort has been expended. "I'll wave a dead chicken
over the source code, but I really think we've run into an OS bug." Compare
{voodoo programming}, {rain dance}. weasel: n. [Cambridge] A naive user, one
who deliberately or accidentally does things which are stupid or ill-advised.
Roughly synonymous with {luser}. wedged: [from a common description of
recto-cranial inversion] adj. 1. To be stuck, incapable of proceeding without
help. This is different from having crashed. If the system has crashed, then
it has become totally non-functioning. If the system is wedged, it is trying
to do something but cannot make progress; it may be capable of doing a few
things, but not be fully operational. For example, the system may become
wedged if the disk controller fries; there are some things you can do without
using the disks, but not many. Being wedged is slightly milder than being
{hung}. Also see {gronk}, {locked up}, {hosed}. 2. This term is sometimes
used to describe a {deadlock} condition. 3. Often refers to humans suffering
misconceptions. 4. [UNIX] Specifically used to describe the state of a TTY
left in a losing state by abort of a screen-oriented program or one that has
messed with the line discipline in some obscure way. wedgitude: /wedj'i-tood/
n. The quality or state of being {wedged}. weeble: /weeb'l/ [Cambridge]
interj. Use to denote frustration, usually at amazing stupidity. "I stuck the
disk in upside down." "Weeble..." Compare {gurfle}. weeds: n. Refers to
development projects or algorithms that have no possible relevance or
practical application. Comes from `off in the weeds'. Used in phrases like
"lexical analysis for microcode is serious weeds...." weenie: n. 1. The
semicolon character, `;' (ASCII 0111011). 2. When used with a qualifier (for
example, as in {UNIX weenie}, VMS weenie, IBM weenie) can become either an
insult or a term of praise, depending on context, tone of voice, and whether
or not it is applied by a person who considered him/herself to be the same
sort of weenie. Implies that the weenie has put a major investment of time,
effort, and concentration into the area indicated; whether this is positive
or negative depends on the hearer's judgement of how the speaker feels about
that area. see also {bigot}. Weenix: [ITS] n. A derogatory term for {UNIX},
derived from {UNIX weenie}. well-behaved: adj. 1. [primarily {MS-DOS}] Said
of software conforming to system interface guidelines and standards. Well
behaved software uses the operating system to do chores such as keyboard
input, allocating memory and drawing graphics. Oppose {ill-behaved}. 2.
Software that does its job quietly and without counterintuitive effects. Esp.
said of software having an interface spec sufficiently simple and
well-defined that it can be used as a {tool} by other software.
well-connected: adj. Said of a computer installation, this means it has
reliable email links with the network and/or relays a large fraction of
available {USENET} newsgroups. `Well-known' can be almost synonymous, but
also implies that the site's name is familiar to many (due perhaps to an
archive service or active USENET users). wetware: [prob. from the novels of
Rudy Rucker] n. 1. The human brain, as opposed to computer hardware or
software (as in "Wetware has at most 7 plus or minus 2 registers"). 2. Human
beings (programmers, operators, administrators) attached to a computer
system, as opposed to the system's hardware or software. what: n. The
question mark character (`?', ASCII 0111111). Syn. {ques}. Usage: rare, used
particularly in conjunction with {wow}. wheel: [from Twenex, q.v.] n. A
privileged user or {wizard} (sense #2). The term was invented on the {TENEX}
operating system and carried over to {TWENEX}, Xerox-IFS, and others. It
entered the UNIX culture from TWENEX and has been gaining popularity there
(esp. at university sites). Privilege bits are sometimes called `wheel bits'.
The state of being in a privileged logon is sometimes called `wheel mode'.
see also {root}. wheel wars: [Stanford University] A period in {larval stage}
during which student wheels hack each other by attempting to log each other
out of the system, delete each other's files, and otherwise wreak havoc,
usually at the expense of the lesser users. White Book: n. Syn. {K&R}.
whizzy: [Sun] adj. (alt. `wizzy') Describes a {cuspy} program; one which is
feature-rich and well presented.