 PDP-11 operating systems, however, and ports of the more advanced MIT
versions remain the focus of some antiquarian interest. see also
{retrocomputing}, {write-only language}. :tee: n.,vt. [Purdue] A carbon copy
of an electronic transmission. "Oh, you're sending him the {bits} to that?
Slap on a tee for me." From the Unix command `tee(1)', itself named after a
pipe fitting (see {plumbing}). Can also mean `save one for me', as in "Tee a
slice for me!" Also spelled `T'. :teergrube: /teer'groob/ n. [German for `tar
pit'] A trap set to punish spammers who use an {address harvester}; a mail
server deliberately set up to be really, really slow. To activate it, scatter
addresses that look like users on the teergrube's host in places where the
address harvester will be trolling (one popular way is to embed the fake
address in a USENET sig block next to a human-readable warning not to send
mail to it). The address harvester will dutifully collect the address. When
the spammer tries to mailbomb it, his mailer will get stuck. :teledildonics:
/tel`*-dil-do'-niks/ n. Sex in a computer simulated virtual reality, esp.
computer-mediated sexual interaction between the {VR} presences of two
humans. This practice is not yet possible except in the rather limited form
of erotic conversation on {MUD}s and the like. The term, however, is widely
recognized in the VR community as a {ha ha only serious} projection of things
to come. "When we can sustain a multi-sensory surround good enough for
teledildonics, _then_ we'll know we're getting somewhere." see also {hot
chat}. :Telerat: /tel'*-rat/ n. obs. Unflattering hackerism for `Teleray', a
now-extinct line of extremely losing terminals. Compare {AIDX}, {Macintrash}
{Nominal Semidestructor}, {ScumOS}, {sun-stools}, {HP-SUX}, {Slowlaris}.
:TELNET: /tel'net/ vt. (also commonly lowercased as `telnet') To communicate
with another Internet host using the TELNET ({RFC} 854) protocol (usually
using a program of the same name). TOPS-10 people used the word IMPCOM, since
that was the program name for them. Sometimes abbreviated to TN /T-N/. "I
usually TN over to SAIL just to read the AP News." :ten-finger interface: n.
The interface between two networks that cannot be directly connected for
security reasons; refers to the practice of placing two terminals side by
side and having an operator read from one and type into the other. :tense:
adj. Of programs, very clever and efficient. A tense piece of code often got
that way because it was highly {bum}med, but sometimes it was just based on a
great idea. A comment in a clever routine by Mike Kazar, once a grad-student
hacker at CMU: "This routine is so tense it will bring tears to your eyes." A
tense programmer is one who produces tense code. :tentacle: n. A covert
{pseudo}, sense 1. An artificial identity created in cyberspace for nefarious
and deceptive purposes. The implication is that a single person may have
multiple tentacles. This term was originally floated in some paranoid ravings
on the cypherpunks list (see {cypherpunk}), and adopted in a spirit of irony
by other, saner members. It has since shown up, used seriously, in the
documentation for some remailer software, and is now (1994) widely recognized
on the net. :tenured graduate student: n. One who has been in graduate school
for 10 years (the usual maximum is 5 or 6): a `ten-yeared' student (get it?).
Actually, this term may be used of any grad student beginning in his seventh
year. Students don't really get tenure, of course, the way professors do, but
a tenth-year graduate student has probably been around the university longer
than any untenured professor. :tera-: /te'r*/ pref. [SI] see {{quantifiers}}.
:teraflop club: /te'r*-flop kluhb/ n. [FLOP = Floating Point Operation] A
mythical association of people who consume outrageous amounts of computer
time in order to produce a few simple pictures of glass balls with intricate
ray-tracing techniques. Caltech professor James Kajiya is said to have been
the founder. Compare {Knights of the Lambda Calculus}. :terminak:
/ter'mi-nak`/ n. [Caltech, ca. 1979] Any malfunctioning computer terminal. A
common failure mode of Lear-Siegler ADM 3a terminals caused the `L' key to
produce the `K' code instead; complaints about this tended to look like
"Terminak #3 has a bad keyboard. Pkease fix." Compare {dread high-bit
disease}, {frogging}; see also {AIDX}, {Nominal Semidestructor}, {ScumOS},
{sun-stools}, {Telerat}, {HP-SUX}, {Slowlaris}. :terminal brain death: n. The
extreme form of {terminal illness} (sense 1). What someone who has obviously
been hacking continuously for far too long is said to be suffering from.
:terminal illness: n. 1. Syn. {raster burn}. 2. The `burn-in' condition your
CRT tends to get if you don't have a screen saver. :terminal junkie: n. [UK]
A {wannabee} or early {larval stage} hacker who spends most of his or her
time wandering the directory tree and writing {noddy} programs just to get a
fix of computer time. Variants include `terminal jockey', `console junkie',
and {console jockey}. The term `console jockey' seems to imply more expertise
than the other three (possibly because of the exalted status of the
{{console}} relative to an ordinary terminal). see also {twink}, {read-only
user}. Appropriately, this term was used in the works of William S. Burroughs
to describe a heroin addict with an unlimited supply. :terpri: /ter'pree/ vi.
[from LISP 1.5 (and later, MacLISP)] To output a {newline}. Now rare as
jargon, though still used as techspeak in Common LISP. It is a contraction of
`TERminate PRInt line', named for the fact that, on some early OSes and
hardware, no characters would be printed until a complete line was formed, so
this operation terminated the line and emitted the output. :test: n. 1. Real
users bashing on a prototype long enough to get thoroughly acquainted with
it, with careful monitoring and followup of the results. 2. Some bored random
user trying a couple of the simpler features with a developer looking over
his or her shoulder, ready to pounce on mistakes. Judging by the quality of
most software, the second definition is far more prevalent. see also {demo}.
:TeX:: /tekh/ n. An extremely powerful {macro}-based text formatter written
by Donald E. {Knuth}, very popular in the computer-science community (it is
good enough to have displaced Unix {{troff}}, the other favored formatter,
even at many Unix installations). TeX fans insist on the correct (guttural)
pronunciation, and the correct spelling (all caps, squished together, with
the E depressed below the baseline; the mixed-case `TeX' is considered an
acceptable kluge on ASCII-only devices). Fans like to proliferate names from
the word `TeX' -- such as TeXnician (TeX user), TeXhacker (TeX programmer),
TeXmaster (competent TeX programmer), TeXhax, and TeXnique. see also
{CrApTeX}. Knuth began TeX because he had become annoyed at the declining
quality of the typesetting in volumes I-III of his monumental "Art of
Computer Programming" (see {Knuth}, also {bible}). In a manifestation of the
typical hackish urge to solve the problem at hand once and for all, he began
to design his own typesetting language. He thought he would finish it on his
sabbatical in 1978; he was wrong by only about 8 years. The language was
finally frozen around 1985, but volume IV of "The Art of Computer
Programming" is not expected to appear until 2002. The impact and influence
of TeX's design has been such that nobody minds this very much. Many grand
hackish projects have started as a bit of {toolsmith}ing on the way to
something else; Knuth's diversion was simply on a grander scale than most.
TeX has also been a noteworthy example of free, shared, but high-quality
software. Knuth offers a monetary awards to anyone who found and reported
bugs dating from before the 1989 code freeze; as the years wore on and the
few remaining bugs were fixed (and new ones even harder to find), the bribe
went up. Though well-written, TeX is so large (and so full of cutting edge
technique) that it is said to have unearthed at least one bug in every Pascal
system it has been compiled with. :text: n. 1. [techspeak] Executable code,
esp. a `pure code' portion shared between multiple instances of a program
running in a multitasking OS. Compare {English}. 2. Textual material in the
mainstream sense; data in ordinary {{ASCII}} or {{EBCDIC}} representation
(see {flat-ASCII}). "Those are text files; you can review them using the
editor." These two contradictory senses confuse hackers, too. :thanks in
advance: [Usenet] Conventional net.politeness ending a posted request for
information or assistance. Sometimes written `advTHANKSance' or
`aTdHvAaNnKcSe' or abbreviated `TIA'. see {net.-}, {netiquette}. :That's not
a bug, that's a feature!: The {canonical} first parry in a debate about a
purported bug. The complainant, if unconvinced, is likely to retort that the
bug is then at best a {misfeature}. see also {feature}. :the literature: n.
Computer-science journals and other publications, vaguely gestured at to
answer a question that the speaker believes is {trivial}. Thus, one might
answer an annoying question by saying "It's in the literature." Oppose
{Knuth}, which has no connotation of triviality. :the network: n. 1. The
union of all the major noncommercial, academic, and hacker-oriented networks,
such as Internet, the pre-1990 ARPANET, NSFnet, {BITNET}, and the virtual
UUCP and {Usenet} `networks', plus the corporate in-house networks and
commercial time-sharing services (such as CompuServe, GEnie and AOL) that
gateway to them. A site is generally considered `on the network' if it can be
reached through some combination of Internet-style (@-sign) and UUCP
(bang-path) addresses. see {Internet}, {bang path}, {{Internet address}},
{network address}. Following the mass-culture discovery of the Internet in
1994 and subsequent proliferation of cheap TCP/IP connections, "the network"
is increasingly synonymous with the Internet itself (as it was before the
second wave of wide-area computer networking began around 1980). 2. A
fictional conspiracy of libertarian hacker-subversives and anti-authoritarian
monkeywrenchers described in Robert Anton Wilson's novel "Schro"dinger's
Cat", to which many hackers have subsequently decided they belong (this is an
example of {ha ha only serious}). In sense 1, `the network' is often
abbreviated to `the net'. "Are you on the net?" is a frequent question when
hackers first meet face to face, and "see you on the net!" is a frequent
goodbye. :the X that can be Y is not the true X: Yet another instance of
hackerdom's peculiar attraction to mystical references -- a common humorous
way of making exclusive statements about a class of things. The template is
from the "Tao te Ching": "The Tao which can be spoken of is not the true
Tao." The implication is often that the X is a mystery accessible only to the
enlightened. see the {trampoline} entry for an example, and compare {has the
X nature}. :theology: n. 1. Ironically or humorously used to refer to
{religious issues}. 2. Technical fine points of an abstruse nature, esp.
those where the resolution is of theoretical interest but is relatively
{marginal} with respect to actual use of a design or system. Used esp. around
software issues with a heavy AI or language-design component, such as the
smart-data vs. smart-programs dispute in AI. :theory: n. The consensus, idea,
plan, story, or set of rules that is currently being used to inform a
behavior. This usage is a generalization and (deliberate) abuse of the
technical meaning. "What's the theory on fixing this TECO loss?" "What's the
theory on dinner tonight?" ("Chinatown, I guess.") "What's the current theory
on letting lusers on during the day?" "The theory behind this change is to
fix the following well-known screw...." :thinko: /thing'koh/ n. [by analogy
with `typo'] A momentary, correctable glitch in mental processing, especially
one involving recall of information learned by rote; a bubble in the stream
of consciousness. Syn. {braino}; see also {brain fart}. Compare {mouso}.
:This can't happen: Less clipped variant of {can't happen}. :This time, for
sure!: excl. Ritual affirmation frequently uttered during protracted
debugging sessions involving numerous small obstacles (e.g., attempts to
bring up a UUCP connection). For the proper effect, this must be uttered in a
fruity imitation of Bullwinkle J. Moose. Also heard: "Hey, Rocky! Watch me
pull a rabbit out of my hat!" The {canonical} response is, of course, "But
that trick _never_ works!" see {{hacker humor}}. :thrash: vi. To move wildly
or violently, without accomplishing anything useful. Paging or swapping
systems that are overloaded waste most of their time moving data into and out
of core (rather than performing useful computation) and are therefore said to
thrash. Someone who keeps changing his mind (esp. about what to work on next)
is said to be thrashing. A person frantically trying to execute too many
tasks at once (and not spending enough time on any single task) may also be
described as thrashing. Compare {multitask}. :thread: n. [Usenet, GEnie,
CompuServe] Common abbreviation of `topic thread', a more or less continuous
chain of postings on a single topic. To `follow a thread' is to read a series
of Usenet postings sharing a common subject or (more correctly) which are
connected by Reference headers. The better newsreaders can present news in
thread order automatically. Interestingly, this is far from a neologism. The
OED says: "That which connects the successive points in anything, esp. a
narrative, train of thought, or the like; the sequence of events or ideas
continuing throughout the whole course of anything;" Citations are given
going back to 1642! :three-finger salute: n. Syn. {Vulcan nerve pinch}.
:throwaway account: n. An inexpensive Internet account purchased on a
legitimate {ISP} for the the sole purpose of spewing {spam}. :thud: n. 1. Yet
another {metasyntactic variable} (see {foo}). It is reported that at CMU from
the mid-1970s the canonical series of these was `foo', `bar', `thud', `blat'.
2. Rare term for the hash character, `#' (ASCII 0100011). see {ASCII} for
other synonyms. :thumb: n. The slider on a window-system scrollbar. So called
because moving it allows you to browse through the contents of a text window
in a way analogous to thumbing through a book. :thunk: /thuhnk/ n. 1. "A
piece of coding which provides an address", according to P. Z. Ingerman, who
invented thunks in 1961 as a way of binding actual parameters to their formal
definitions in Algol-60 procedure calls. If a procedure is called with an
expression in the place of a formal parameter, the compiler generates a thunk
which computes the expression and leaves the address of the result in some
standard location. 2. Later generalized into: an expression, frozen together
with its environment, for later evaluation if and when needed (similar to
what in techspeak is called a `closure'). The process of unfreezing these
thunks is called `forcing'. 3. A {stubroutine}, in an overlay programming
environment, that loads and jumps to the correct overlay. Compare
{trampoline}. 4. People and activities scheduled in a thunklike manner. "It
occurred to me the other day that I am rather accurately modeled by a thunk
-- I frequently need to be forced to completion." -- paraphrased from a {plan
file}. Historical note: There are a couple of onomatopoeic myths circulating
about the origin of this term. The most common is that it is the sound made
by data hitting the stack; another holds that the sound is that of the data
hitting an accumulator. Yet another suggests that it is the sound of the
expression being unfrozen at argument-evaluation time. In fact, according to
the inventors, it was coined after they realized (in the wee hours after
hours of discussion) that the type of an argument in Algol-60 could be
figured out in advance with a little compile-time thought, simplifying the
evaluation machinery. In other words, it had `already been thought of'; thus
it was christened a `thunk', which is "the past tense of `think' at two in
the morning". :tick: n. 1. A {jiffy} (sense 1). 2. In simulations, the
discrete unit of time that passes between iterations of the simulation
mechanism. In AI applications, this amount of time is often left unspecified,
since the only constraint of interest is the ordering of events. This sort of
AI simulation is often pejoratively referred to as `tick-tick-tick'
simulation, especially when the issue of simultaneity of events with long,
independent chains of causes is {handwave}d. 3. In the FORTH language, a
single quote character. :tick-list features: n. [Acorn Computers] Features in
software or hardware that customers insist on but never use (calculators in
desktop TSRs and that sort of thing). The American equivalent would be
`checklist features', but this jargon sense of the phrase has not been
reported. :tickle a bug: vt. To cause a normally hidden bug to manifest
itself through some known series of inputs or operations. "You can tickle the
bug in the Paradise VGA card's highlight handling by trying to set bright
yellow reverse video." :tiger team: n. [U.S. military jargon] 1. Originally,
a team (of {sneaker}s) whose purpose is to penetrate security, and thus test
security measures. These people are paid professionals who do hacker-type
tricks, e.g., leave cardboard signs saying "bomb" in critical defense
installations, hand-lettered notes saying "Your codebooks have been stolen"
(they usually haven't been) inside safes, etc. After a successful
penetration, some high-ranking security type shows up the next morning for a
`security review' and finds the sign, note, etc., and all hell breaks loose.
Serious successes of tiger teams sometimes lead to early retirement for base
commanders and security officers (see the {patch} entry for an example). 2.
Recently, and more generally, any official inspection team or special
{firefighting} group called in to look at a problem. A subset of tiger teams
are professional {cracker}s, testing the security of military computer
installations by attempting remote attacks via networks or supposedly
`secure' comm channels. Some of their escapades, if declassified, would
probably rank among the greatest hacks of all times. The term has been
adopted in commercial computer-security circles in this more specific sense.
:time bomb: n. A subspecies of {logic bomb} that is triggered by reaching
some preset time, either once or periodically. There are numerous legends
about time bombs set up by programmers in their employers' machines, to go
off if the programmer is fired or laid off and is not present to perform the
appropriate suppressing action periodically. Interestingly, the only such
incident for which we have been pointed to documentary evidence took place in
the Soviet Union in