 :warez d00dz: /weirz doodz/ n. A substantial subculture of {cracker}s refer
to themselves as `warez d00dz'; there is evidently some connection with
{B1FF} here. As `Ozone Pilot', one former warez d00d, wrote: Warez d00dz get
illegal copies of copyrighted software. If it has copy protection on it, they
break the protection so the software can be copied. Then they distribute it
around the world via several gateways. Warez d00dz form badass group names
like RAZOR and the like. They put up boards that distribute the latest ware,
or pirate program. The whole point of the Warez sub-culture is to get the
pirate program released and distributed before any other group. I know, I
know. But don't ask, and it won't hurt as much. This is how they prove their
poweress [sic]. It gives them the right to say, "I released King's Quest
IVXIX before you so obviously my testicles are larger." Again don't ask...
The studly thing to do if one is a warez d00d, it appears, is emit `0-day
warez', that is copies of commercial software copied and cracked on the same
day as its retail release. Warez d00ds also hoard software in a big way,
collecting untold megabytes of arcade-style games, pornographic GIFs and
applications they'll never use onto their hard disks. As Ozone Pilot acutely
observes: [BELONG] is the only word you will need to know. Warez d00dz want
to belong. They have been shunned by everyone, and thus turn to cyberspace
for acceptance. That is why they always start groups like TGW, FLT, USA and
the like. Structure makes them happy. [...] Warez d00dz will never have a
handle like "Pink Daisy" because warez d00dz are insecure. Only someone who
is very secure with a good dose of self-esteem can stand up to the cries of
fag and girlie-man. More likely you will find warez d00dz with handles like:
Doctor Death, Deranged Lunatic, Hellraiser, Mad Prince, Dreamdevil, The
Unknown, Renegade Chemist, Terminator, and Twin Turbo. They like to sound
badass when they can hide behind their terminals. More likely, if you were
given a sample of 100 people, the person whose handle is Hellraiser is the
last person you'd associate with the name. The contrast with Internet hackers
is stark and instructive. see {cracker}, {wannabee}, {handle}, {elite}.