 2. Software that does its job quietly and without counterintuitive effects.
Esp. said of software having an interface spec sufficiently simple and
well-defined that it can be used as a {tool} by other software. see {cat}. 3.
Said of an algorithm that doesn't {crash} or {blow up}, even when given
{pathological} input. Implies that the stability of the algorithm is
intrinsic, which makes this somewhat different from {bulletproof}.
:well-connected: adj. Said of a computer installation, asserts that it has
reliable email links with the network and/or that it relays a large fraction
of available {Usenet} newsgroups. `Well-known' can be almost synonymous, but
also implies that the site's name is familiar to many (due perhaps to an
archive service or active Usenet users). :wetware: /wet'weir/ n. [prob. from
the novels of Rudy Rucker] 1. The human nervous system, as opposed to
computer hardware or software. "Wetware has 7 plus or minus 2 temporary
registers." 2. Human beings (programmers, operators, administrators) attached
to a computer system, as opposed to the system's hardware or software. see
{liveware}, {meatware}. :whack: v. According to arch-hacker James Gosling
(designer of {NeWS}, {GOSMACS} and Java), to "...modify a program with no
idea whatsoever how it works." (see {whacker}.) It is actually possible to do
this in nontrivial circumstances if the change is small and well-defined and
you are very good at {glark}ing things from context. As a trivial example, it
is relatively easy to change all `stderr' writes to `stdout' writes in a
piece of C filter code which remains otherwise mysterious. :whack-a-mole: n.
[from the carnival game which involves quickly and repeatedly hitting the
heads of mechanical moles with a mallet as they pop up from their holes.] 1.
The practice of repeatedly causing spammers' {throwaway account}s and drop
boxes to be terminated. 2. After sense 1 became established in the mid-1990s
the term passed into more generalized use, and now is commonly found in such
combinations as `whack-a-mole windows'; the obnoxious pop-ip advertisement
windows spawned in flocks when you surg to sites like Geocities or Tripod.
:whacker: n. [University of Maryland: from {hacker}] 1. A person, similar to
a {hacker}, who enjoys exploring the details of programmable systems and how
to stretch their capabilities. Whereas a hacker tends to produce great hacks,
a whacker only ends up whacking the system or program in question. Whackers
are often quite egotistical and eager to claim {wizard} status, regardless of
the views of their peers. 2. A person who is good at programming quickly,
though rather poorly and ineptly. :whales: n. see {like kicking dead whales
down the beach}. :whalesong: n. The peculiar clicking and whooshing sounds
made by a PEP modem such as the Telebit Trailblazer as it tries to
synchronize with another PEP modem for their special high-speed mode. This
sound isn't anything like the normal two-tone handshake between conventional
V-series modems and is instantly recognizable to anyone who has heard it more
than once. It sounds, in fact, very much like whale songs. This noise is also
called "the moose call" or "moose tones". :What's a spline?: [XEROX PARC]
This phrase expands to: "You have just used a term that I've heard for a year
and a half, and I feel I should know, but don't. My curiosity has finally
overcome my guilt." The PARC lexicon adds "Moral: don't hesitate to ask
questions, even if they seem obvious." :wheel: n. [from slang `big wheel' for
a powerful person] A person who has an active {wheel bit}. "We need to find a
wheel to unwedge the hung tape drives." (see {wedged}, sense 1.) The
traditional name of security group zero in {BSD} (to which the major
system-internal users like {root} belong) is `wheel'. Some vendors have
expanded on this usage, modifying Unix so that only members of group `wheel'
can {go root}. :wheel bit: n. A privilege bit that allows the possessor to
perform some restricted operation on a timesharing system, such as read or
write any file on the system regardless of protections, change or look at any
address in the running monitor, crash or reload the system, and kill or
create jobs and user accounts. The term was invented on the TENEX operating
system, and carried over to TOPS-20, XEROX-IFS, and others. The state of
being in a privileged logon is sometimes called `wheel mode'. This term
entered the Unix culture from TWENEX in the mid-1980s and has been gaining
popularity there (esp. at university sites). see also {root}. :wheel of
reincarnation: [coined in a paper by T. H. Myer and I.E. Sutherland "On the
Design of Display Processors", Comm. ACM, Vol. 11, no. 6, June 1968)] Term
used to refer to a well-known effect whereby function in a computing system
family is migrated out to special-purpose peripheral hardware for speed, then
the peripheral evolves toward more computing power as it does its job, then
somebody notices that it is inefficient to support two asymmetrical
processors in the architecture and folds the function back into the main CPU,
at which point the cycle begins again. Several iterations of this cycle have
been observed in graphics-processor design, and at least one or two in
communications and floating-point processors. Also known as `the Wheel of
Life', `the Wheel of Samsara', and other variations of the basic
Hindu/Buddhist theological idea. see also {blitter}, {bit bang}. :wheel wars:
n. [Stanford University] A period in {larval stage} during which student
hackers hassle each other by attempting to log each other out of the system,
delete each other's files, and otherwise wreak havoc, usually at the expense
of the lesser users. :White Book: n. 1. Syn. {K&R}. 2. Adobe's fourth book in
the PostScript series, describing the previously-secret format of Type 1
fonts; "Adobe Type 1 Font Format, version 1.1", (Addison-Wesley, 1990, ISBN
0-201-57044-0). see also {Red Book}, {Green Book}, {Blue Book}. :whitelist:
n. The opposite of a blacklist. That is, instead of being an explicit list of
people who are banned, it's an explicit list of people who are to be
admitted. Hackers use this especially of lists of email addresses that are
explicitly enabled to get past strict anti-spam filters. :whizzy: adj. (alt.
`wizzy') [Sun] Describes a {cuspy} program; one that is feature-rich and well
presented. :wibble: [UK, perh. originally from the first "Roger Irrelevant"
strip in "VIZ" comics, spread via "Your Sinclair magazine in the 1980s and
early 1990s"] 1. n.,v. Commonly used to describe chatter, content-free
remarks or other essentially meaningless contributions to threads in
newsgroups. "Oh, rspence is wibbling again". 2. [UK IRC] An explicit on-line
no-op equivalent to {humma}. 3. One of the preferred {metasyntactic
variable}s in the UK, forming a series with `wobble', `wubble', and `flob'
(attributed to the hilarious historical comedy "Blackadder"). 4. A
pronounciation of the letters "www", as seen in URLs; i.e., www.{foo}.com may
be pronounced "wibble dot foo dot com" (compare {dub dub dub}). The ancestral
sense of this word is reported to have been "My brain is packing it in now. I
give up. _Tilt! Tilt! Tilt!_" :WIBNI: // n. [Bell Labs: Wouldn't It Be Nice
If] What most requirements documents and specifications consist entirely of.
Compare {IWBNI}. :widget: n. 1. A meta-thing. Used to stand for a real object
in didactic examples (especially database tutorials). Legend has it that the
original widgets were holders for buggy whips. "But suppose the parts list
for a widget has 52 entries...." 2. [poss. evoking `window gadget'] A user
interface object in {X} graphical user interfaces. :wiggles: n. [scientific
computation] In solving partial differential equations by finite difference
and similar methods, wiggles are sawtooth (up-down-up-down) oscillations at
the shortest wavelength representable on the grid. If an algorithm is
unstable, this is often the most unstable waveform, so it grows to dominate
the solution. Alternatively, stable (though inaccurate) wiggles can be
generated near a discontinuity by a Gibbs phenomenon. :WIMP environment: n.
[acronym: `Window, Icon, Menu, Pointing device (or Pull-down menu)'] A
graphical-user-interface environment such as {X} or the Macintosh interface,
esp. as described by a hacker who prefers command-line interfaces for their
superior flexibility and extensibility. However, it is also used without
negative connotations; one must pay attention to voice tone and other signals
to interpret correctly. see {menuitis}, {user-obsequious}. :win: [MIT; now
common everywhere] 1. vi. To succeed. A program wins if no unexpected
conditions arise, or (especially) if it sufficiently {robust} to take
exceptions in stride. 2. n. Success, or a specific instance thereof. A
pleasing outcome. "So it turned out I could use a {lexer} generator instead
of hand-coding my own pattern recognizer. What a win!" Emphatic forms: `moby
win', `super win', `hyper-win' (often used interjectively as a reply). For
some reason `suitable win' is also common at MIT, usually in reference to a
satisfactory solution to a problem. Oppose {lose}; see also {big win}, which
isn't quite just an intensification of `win'. :win big: vi. To experience
serendipity. "I went shopping and won big; there was a 2-for-1 sale." see
{big win}. :win win: excl. Expresses pleasure at a {win}. :Winchester:: n.
Informal generic term for sealed-enclosure magnetic-disk drives in which the
read-write head planes over the disk surface on an air cushion. There is a
legend that the name arose because the original 1973 engineering prototype
for what later became the IBM 3340 featured two 30-megabyte volumes; 30-30
became `Winchester' when somebody noticed the similarity to the common term
for a famous Winchester rifle (in the latter, the first 30 referred to
caliber and the second to the grain weight of the charge). (It is sometimes
incorrectly claimed that Winchester was the laboratory in which the
technology was developed.) :windoid: n. In the Macintosh world, a style of
window with much less adornment (smaller or missing title bar, zoom box, etc,
etc) than a standard window. :window shopping: n. [US Geological Survey]
Among users of {WIMP environment}s like {X} or the Macintosh, extended
experimentation with new window colors, fonts, and icon shapes. This activity
can take up hours of what might otherwise have been productive working time.
"I spent the afternoon window shopping until I found the coolest shade of
green for my active window borders -- now they perfectly match my medium
slate blue background." Serious window shoppers will spend their days with
bitmap editors, creating new and different icons and background patterns for
all to see. Also: `window dressing', the act of applying new fonts, colors,
etc. see {fritterware}, compare {macdink}. :Windoze: /win'dohz/ n. see
{Microsloth Windows}. :winged comments: n. Comments set on the same line as
code, as opposed to {boxed comments}. In C, for example: d = sqrt(x*x + y*y);
/* distance from origin */ Generally these refer only to the action(s) taken
on that line. :winkey: n. (alt. `winkey face') see {emoticon}. :winnage:
/win'*j/ n. The situation when a lossage is corrected, or when something is
winning. :winner: 1. n. An unexpectedly good situation, program, programmer,
or person. 2. `real winner': Often sarcastic, but also used as high praise
(see also the note under {user}). "He's a real winner -- never reports a bug
till he can duplicate it and send in an example." :winnitude: /win'*-t[y]ood/
n. The quality of winning (as opposed to {winnage}, which is the result of
winning). "Guess what? They tweaked the microcode and now the LISP
interpreter runs twice as fast as it used to." "That's really great! Boy,
what winnitude!" "Yup. I'll probably get a half-hour's winnage on the next
run of my program." Perhaps curiously, the obvious antonym `lossitude' is
rare. :Wintel: n. Microsoft Windows plus Intel - the tacit alliance that
dominated desktop computing in the 1990s. Now (1999) possibly on the verge of
breaking up under pressure from {Linux}; see {Lintel}. :wired: n. see
{hardwired}. :wirehead: /wi:r'hed/ n. [prob. from SF slang for an
electrical-brain-stimulation addict] 1. A hardware hacker, especially one who
concentrates on communications hardware. 2. An expert in local-area networks.
A wirehead can be a network software wizard too, but will always have the
ability to deal with network hardware, down to the smallest component.
Wireheads are known for their ability to lash up an Ethernet terminator from
spare resistors, for example. :wirewater: n. Syn. {programming fluid}. This
melds the mainstream slang adjective `wired' (stimulated, up, hyperactive)
with `firewater'; however, it refers to caffeinacious rather than alcoholic
beverages. :wish list: n. A list of desired features or bug fixes that
probably won't get done for a long time, usually because the person
responsible for the code is too busy or can't think of a clean way to do it.
"OK, I'll add automatic filename completion to the wish list for the new
interface." Compare {tick-list features}. :within delta of: adj. see {delta}.
:within epsilon of: adj. see {epsilon}. :wizard: n. 1. Transitively, a person
who knows how a complex piece of software or hardware works (that is, who
{grok}s it); esp. someone who can find and fix bugs quickly in an emergency.
Someone is a {hacker} if he or she has general hacking ability, but is a
wizard with respect to something only if he or she has specific detailed
knowledge of that thing. A good hacker could become a wizard for something
given the time to study it. 2. The term `wizard' is also used intransitively
of someone who has extremely high-level hacking or problem-solving ability.
3. A person who is permitted to do things forbidden to ordinary people; one
who has {wheel} privileges on a system. 4. A Unix expert, esp. a Unix systems
programmer. This usage is well enough established that `Unix Wizard' is a
recognized job title at some corporations and to most headhunters. see
{guru}, {lord high fixer}. See also {deep magic}, {heavy wizardry},
{incantation}, {magic}, {mutter}, {rain dance}, {voodoo programming}, {wave a
dead chicken}. :Wizard Book: n. "Structure and Interpretation of Computer
Programs" (Hal Abelson, Jerry Sussman and Julie Sussman; MIT Press, 1984,
1996; ISBN 0-262-01153-0), an excellent computer science text used in
introductory courses at MIT. So called because of the wizard on the jacket.
One of the {bible}s of the LISP/Scheme world. Also, less commonly, known as
the {Purple Book}. :wizard hat: n. [also, after Terry Pratchett, `pointy
hat'] Notional headgear worn by whoever is the {wizard} in a particular
context. The implication is that it's a transferable role. "Talk to Alice,
she's wearing the TCP/IP wizard hat while Bob is on vacation." This metaphor
is sufficiently live that one may actually see hackers miming the act of
putting on, taking off, or transferring a phantom hat. Compare {patch
pumpkin}. :wizard mode: n. [from {rogue}] A special access mode of a program
or system, usually passworded, that permits some users godlike privileges.
Generally not used for operating systems themselves (`root mode' or `wheel
mode' would be used instead). This term is often used with respect to games
that have editable state. :wizardly: adj. Pertaining to wizards. A wizardly
{feature} is one that only a wizard could understand or use properly.
:wok-on-the-wall: n. A small microwave dish antenna used for cross-campus
private network circuits, from the obvious resemblance between a microwave
dish and the Chinese culinary utensil. :womb box: n. 1. [TMRC] Storage space
for equipment. 2. [proposed] A variety of hard-shell equipment case with
heavy interior padding and/or shaped carrier cutouts in a foam-rubber matrix;
mundanely called a `flight case'. Used for delicate test equipment,
electronics, and musical instruments. :WOMBAT: /wom'bat/ adj. [acronym: Waste
Of Money, Brains, And Time] Applied to problems which are both profoundly
{uninteresting} in themselves and unlikely to benefit anyone interesting even
if solved. Often used in fanciful constructions such as `wrestling with a
wombat'. see also {crawling horror}, {SMOP}. Also note the rather different
usage as a metasyntactic variable in {{Commonwealth Hackish}}. Users of the
PDP-11 database program DATATRIEVE adopted the wombat as their notional
mascot; the program's help file responded to "HELP WOMBAT" with factual
information about Real World wombats. :womble: n. [Unisys UK: from British
animated characters] A user who has great difficulty in communicating their
requirements and/or in using the resulting software. Extreme case of {luser}.
An especially senior or high-ranking womble is referred to as Great-Uncle
Bulgaria. :wonky: /wong'kee/ adj. [from Australian slang] Yet another
approximate synonym for {broken}. Specifically connotes a malfunction that
produces behavior seen as crazy, humorous, or amusingly perverse. "That was
the day the printer's font logic went wonky and everybody's listings came out
in Tengwar." Also in `wonked out'. see {funky}, {demented}, {bozotic}.
:woofer: n. [University of Waterloo] Some varieties of wide paper for
printers have a perforation 8.5 inches from the left margin that allows the
excess on the right-hand side to be torn off when the print format is 80
columns or less wide. The right-hand excess may be called `woofer'. This term
(like {tweeter}) has been in use at Waterloo since 1972, but is elsewhere
unknown. In audio jargon, the word refers to the bass speaker(s) on a hi-fi.
:workaround: n. 1. A temporary {kluge} used to bypass, mask, or otherwise
avoid a {bug} or {misfeature} in some system. Theoretically, workarounds are
always replaced by {fix}es; in practice, customers often find themselves
living with workarounds for long periods of time. "The code died on NUL
characters in the input, so I fixed it to interpret them as spaces." "That's
not a fix, that's a workaround!" 2. A procedure to be employed by the user in
order to do what some currently non-working feature should do. Hypothetical
example: "Using META-F7 {crash}es the