 :wumpus: /wuhm'p*s/ n. The central monster (and, in many versions, the name)
of a famous family of very early computer games called "Hunt The Wumpus",
dating back at least to 1972 (several years before {ADVENT}) on the Dartmouth
Time-Sharing System. The wumpus lived somewhere in a cave with the topology
of an dodecahedron's edge/vertex graph (later versions supported other
topologies, including an icosahedron and M"obius strip). The player started
somewhere at random in the cave with five `crooked arrows'; these could be
shot through up to three connected rooms, and would kill the wumpus on a hit
(later versions introduced the wounded wumpus, which got very angry).
Unfortunately for players, the movement necessary to map the maze was made
hazardous not merely by the wumpus (which would eat you if you stepped on
him) but also by bottomless pits and colonies of super bats that would pick
you up and drop you at a random location (later versions added `anaerobic
termites' that ate arrows, bat migrations, and earthquakes that randomly
changed pit locations). This game appears to have been the first to use a
non-random graph-structured map (as opposed to a rectangular grid like the
even older Star Trek games). In this respect, as in the dungeon-like setting
and its terse, amusing messages, it prefigured {ADVENT} and {Zork} and was
directly ancestral to both (Zork acknowledged this heritage by including a
super-bat colony). Today, a port is distributed with SunOS and as freeware
for the Mac. A C emulation of the original Basic game is in circulation as
freeware on the net.