 A refinement of the theorem states that there will be _exactly_ one person
(if there were more than one, it wouldn't be as bad to re-tell the story).
[The name of this theorem is a play on a fundamental theorem in calculus.
--ESR] :greenbar: n. A style of fanfolded continuous-feed paper with
alternating green and white bars on it, especially used in old-style line
printers. This slang almost certainly dates way back to mainframe days.
:grep: /grep/ vi. [from the qed/ed editor idiom g/re/p, where re stands for a
regular expression, to Globally search for the Regular Expression and Print
the lines containing matches to it, via {{Unix}} `grep(1)'] To rapidly scan a
file or set of files looking for a particular string or pattern (when
browsing through a large set of files, one may speak of `grepping around').
By extension, to look for something by pattern. "Grep the bulletin board for
the system backup schedule, would you?" see also {vgrep}. [It has also been
alleged that the source is from the title of a paper "A General Regular
Expression Parser" -ESR] :gribble: n. Random binary data rendered as
unreadable text. Noise characters in a data stream are displayed as gribble.
Modems with mismatched bitrates usually generate gribble (more specifically,
{baud barf}). Dumping a binary file to the screen is an excellent source of
gribble, and (if the bell/speaker is active) headaches. :grilf: // n.
Girlfriend. Like {newsfroup} and {filk}, a typo reincarnated as a new word.
seems to have originated sometime in 1992 on {Usenet}. [A friend tells me
there was a Lloyd Biggle SF novel "Watchers Of The Dark", in which alien
species after species goes insane and begins to chant "Grilf! Grilf!". A
human detective eventually determines that the word means "Liar!" I hope this
has nothing to do with the popularity of the Usenet term. --ESR] :grind: vt.
1. [MIT and Berkeley; now rare] To prettify hardcopy of code, especially LISP
code, by reindenting lines, printing keywords and comments in distinct fonts
(if available), etc. This usage was associated with the MacLISP community and
is now rare; {prettyprint} was and is the generic term for such operations.
2. [Unix] To generate the formatted version of a document from the {{nroff}},
{{troff}}, {{TeX}}, or Scribe source. 3. [common] To run seemingly
interminably, esp. (but not necessarily) if performing some tedious and
inherently useless task. Similar to {crunch} or {grovel}. Grinding has a
connotation of using a lot of CPU time, but it is possible to grind a disk,
network, etc. see also {hog}. 4. To make the whole system slow. "Troff really
grinds a PDP-11." 5. `grind grind' excl. Roughly, "Isn't the machine slow
today!" :grind crank: n. // A mythical accessory to a terminal. A crank on
the side of a monitor, which when operated makes a zizzing noise and causes
the computer to run faster. Usually one does not refer to a grind crank out
loud, but merely makes the appropriate gesture and noise. see {grind}.
Historical note: At least one real machine actually had a grind crank -- the
R1, a research machine built toward the end of the days of the great vacuum
tube computers, in 1959. R1 (also known as `The Rice Institute Computer'
(TRIC) and later as `The Rice University Computer' (TRUC)) had a
single-step/free-run switch for use when debugging programs. Since
single-stepping through a large program was rather tedious, there was also a
crank with a cam and gear arrangement that repeatedly pushed the single-step
button. This allowed one to `crank' through a lot of code, then slow down to
single-step for a bit when you got near the code of interest, poke at some
registers using the console typewriter, and then keep on cranking. :gripenet:
n. [IBM] A wry (and thoroughly unofficial) name for IBM's internal VNET
system, deriving from its common use by IBMers to voice pointed criticism of
IBM management that would be taboo in more formal channels. :gritch: /grich/
[MIT] 1. n. A complaint (often caused by a {glitch}). 2. vi. To complain.
Often verb-doubled: "Gritch gritch". 3. A synonym for {glitch} (as verb or
noun). Interestingly, this word seems to have a separate history from
{glitch}, with which it is often confused. Back in the early 1960s, when
`glitch' was strictly a hardware-tech's term of art, the Burton House dorm at
M.I.T. maintained a "Gritch Book", a blank volume, into which the residents
hand-wrote complaints, suggestions, and witticisms. Previous years' volumes
of this tradition were maintained, dating back to antiquity. The word
"gritch" was described as a portmanteau of "gripe" and "bitch". Thus, sense 3
above is at least historically incorrect. :grok: /grok/, var. /grohk/ vt.
[from the novel "Stranger in a Strange Land", by Robert A. Heinlein, where it
is a Martian word meaning literally `to drink' and metaphorically `to be one
with'] The emphatic form is `grok in fullness'. 1. To understand, usually in
a global sense. Connotes intimate and exhaustive knowledge. Contrast {zen},
which is similar supernal understanding experienced as a single brief flash.
see also {glark}. 2. Used of programs, may connote merely sufficient
understanding. "Almost all C compilers grok the `void' type these days."
:gronk: /gronk/ vt. [popularized by Johnny Hart's comic strip "B.C." but the
word apparently predates that] 1. To clear the state of a wedged device and
restart it. More severe than `to {frob}' (sense 2). 2. [TMRC] To cut, sever,
smash, or similarly disable. 3. The sound made by many 3.5-inch diskette
drives. In particular, the microfloppies on a Commodore Amiga go "grink,
gronk". :gronk out: vi. To cease functioning. Of people, to go home and go to
sleep. "I guess I'll gronk out now; see you all tomorrow." :gronked: adj. 1.
Broken. "The teletype scanner was gronked, so we took the system down." 2. Of
people, the condition of feeling very tired or (less commonly) sick. "I've
been chasing that bug for 17 hours now and I am thoroughly gronked!" Compare
{broken}, which means about the same as {gronk} used of hardware, but
connotes depression or mental/emotional problems in people. :grovel: vi. 1.
To work interminably and without apparent progress. Often used transitively
with `over' or `through'. "The file scavenger has been groveling through the
/usr directories for 10 minutes now." Compare {grind} and {crunch}. Emphatic
form: `grovel obscenely'. 2. To examine minutely or in complete detail. "The
compiler grovels over the entire source program before beginning to translate
it." "I grovelled through all the documentation, but I still couldn't find
the command I wanted." :grue: n. [from archaic English verb for `shudder', as
with fear] The grue was originated in the game {Zork} (Dave Lebling took the
name from Jack Vance's "Dying Earth" fantasies) and used in several other
{Infocom} games as a hint that you should perhaps look for a lamp, torch or
some type of light source. Wandering into a dark area would cause the game to
prompt you, "It is very dark. If you continue you are likely to be eaten by a
grue." If you failed to locate a light source within the next couple of moves
this would indeed be the case. The grue, according to scholars of the Great
Underground Empire, is a sinister, lurking presence in the dark places of the
earth. Its favorite diet is either adventurers or enchanters, but its
insatiable appetite is tempered by its extreme fear of light. No grues have
ever been seen by the light of day, and only a few have been observed in
their underground lairs. Of those who have seen grues, few have survived
their fearsome jaws to tell the tale. Grues have sharp claws and fangs, and
an uncontrollable tendency to slaver and gurgle. They are certainly the most
evil-tempered of all creatures; to say they are touchy is a dangerous
understatement. "Sour as a grue" is a common expression, even among
themselves. All this folklore is widely known among hackers. :grunge:
/gruhnj/ n. 1. That which is grungy, or that which makes it so. 2.
[Cambridge] Code which is inaccessible due to changes in other parts of the
program. The preferred term in North America is {dead code}. :gubbish:
/guhb'*sh/ n. [a portmanteau of `garbage' and `rubbish'; may have originated
with SF author Philip K. Dick] Garbage; crap; nonsense. "What is all this
gubbish?" The opposite portmanteau `rubbage' is also reported; in fact, it
was British slang during the 19th century and appears in Dickens. :Guido:
/gwee'do/ or /khwee'do/ Without qualification, Guido van Rossum (author of
{Python}). Note that Guido answers to English /gwee'do/ but in Dutch it's
/khwee'do/. :guiltware: /gilt'weir/ n. 1. A piece of {freeware} decorated
with a message telling one how long and hard the author worked on it and
intimating that one is a no-good freeloader if one does not immediately send
the poor suffering martyr gobs of money. 2. A piece of {shareware} that
works. :gumby: /guhm'bee/ n. [from a class of Monty Python characters, poss.
with some influence from the 1960s claymation character] 1. An act of minor
but conspicuous stupidity, often in `gumby maneuver' or `pull a gumby'. 2.
[NRL] n. A bureaucrat, or other technical incompetent who impedes the
progress of real work. 3. adj. Relating to things typically associated with
people in sense 2. (e.g. "Ran would be writing code, but Richard gave him
gumby work that's due on Friday", or, "Dammit! Travel screwed up my plane
tickets. I have to go out on gumby patrol.") :gun: vt. [ITS, now rare: from
the `:GUN' command] To forcibly terminate a program or job (computer, not
career). "Some idiot left a background process running soaking up half the
cycles, so I gunned it." Usage: now rare. Compare {can}, {blammo}. :gunch:
/guhnch/ vt. [TMRC] To push, prod, or poke at a device that has almost (but
not quite) produced the desired result. Implies a threat to {mung}.
:gunpowder chicken: n. Same as {laser chicken}. :gurfle: /ger'fl/ interj. An
expression of shocked disbelief. "He said we have to recode this thing in
FORTRAN by next week. Gurfle!" Compare {weeble}. :guru: n. [Unix] An expert.
Implies not only {wizard} skill but also a history of being a knowledge
resource for others. Less often, used (with a qualifier) for other experts on
other systems, as in `VMS guru'. see {source of all good bits}. :guru
meditation: n. Amiga equivalent of `panic' in Unix (sometimes just called a
`guru' or `guru event'). When the system crashes, a cryptic message of the
form "GURU MEDITATION #XXXXXXXX.YYYYYYYY" may appear, indicating what the
problem was. An Amiga guru can figure things out from the numbers. Sometimes
a {guru} event must be followed by a {Vulcan nerve pinch}. This term is (no
surprise) an in-joke from the earliest days of the Amiga. An earlier product
of the Amiga corporation was a device called a `Joyboard' which was basically
a plastic board built onto a joystick-like device; it was sold with a skiing
game cartridge for the Atari game machine. It is said that whenever the
prototype OS crashed, the system programmer responsible would calm down by
concentrating on a solution while sitting cross-legged on a Joyboard trying
to keep the board in balance. This position resembled that of a meditating
guru. Sadly, the joke was removed fairly early on (but there's a well-known
patch to restore it in more recent versions). :gweep: /gweep/ [WPI] 1. v. To
{hack}, usually at night. At WPI, from 1975 onwards, one who gweeped could
often be found at the College Computing Center punching cards or crashing the
{PDP-10} or, later, the DEC-20. A correspondent who was there at the time
opines that the term was originally onomatopoetic, describing the keyclick
sound of the Datapoint terminals long connected to the PDP-10. The term has
survived the demise of those technologies, however, and was still alive in
early 1999. "I'm going to go gweep for a while. see you in the morning." "I
gweep from 8 PM till 3 AM during the week." 2. n. One who habitually gweeps
in sense 1; a {hacker}. "He's a hard-core gweep, mumbles code in his sleep."
= H = ===== :h: [from SF fandom] A method of `marking' common words, i.e.,
calling attention to the fact that they are being used in a nonstandard,
ironic, or humorous way. Originated in the fannish catchphrase "Bheer is the
One True Ghod!" from decades ago. H-infix marking of `Ghod' and other words
spread into the 1960s counterculture via underground comix, and into early
hackerdom either from the counterculture or from SF fandom (the three
overlapped heavily at the time). More recently, the h infix has become an
expected feature of benchmark names (Dhrystone, Rhealstone, etc.); this is
probably patterning on the original Whetstone (the name of a laboratory) but
influenced by the fannish/counterculture h infix. :ha ha only serious: [from
SF fandom, orig. as mutation of HHOK, `Ha Ha Only Kidding'] A phrase (often
seen abbreviated as HHOS) that aptly captures the flavor of much hacker
discourse. Applied especially to parodies, absurdities, and ironic jokes that
are both intended and perceived to contain a possibly disquieting amount of
truth, or truths that are constructed on in-joke and self-parody. This
lexicon contains many examples of ha-ha-only-serious in both form and
content. Indeed, the entirety of hacker culture is often perceived as
ha-ha-only-serious by hackers themselves; to take it either too lightly or
too seriously marks a person as an outsider, a {wannabee}, or in {larval
stage}. For further enlightenment on this subject, consult any Zen master.
see also {{hacker humor}}, and {AI koans}. :hack: [very common] 1. n.
Originally, a quick job that produces what is needed, but not well. 2. n. An
incredibly good, and perhaps very time-consuming, piece of work that produces
exactly what is needed. 3. vt. To bear emotionally or physically. "I can't
hack this heat!" 4. vt. To work on something (typically a program). In an
immediate sense: "What are you doing?" "I'm hacking TECO." In a general
(time-extended) sense: "What do you do around here?" "I hack TECO." More
generally, "I hack `foo'" is roughly equivalent to "`foo' is my major
interest (or project)". "I hack solid-state physics." see {Hacking X for Y}.
5. vt. To pull a prank on. see sense 2 and {hacker} (sense 5). 6. vi. To
interact with a computer in a playful and exploratory rather than
goal-directed way. "Whatcha up to?" "Oh, just hacking." 7. n. Short for
{hacker}. 8. see {nethack}. 9. [MIT] v. To explore the basements, roof
ledges, and steam tunnels of a large, institutional building, to the dismay
of Physical Plant workers and (since this is usually performed at educational
institutions) the Campus Police. This activity has been found to be eerily
similar to playing adventure games such as Dungeons and Dragons and {Zork}.
see also {vadding}. Constructions on this term abound. They include `happy
hacking' (a farewell), `how's hacking?' (a friendly greeting among hackers)
and `hack, hack' (a fairly content-free but friendly comment, often used as a
temporary farewell). For more on this totipotent term see "{The Meaning of
Hack}". see also {neat hack}, {real hack}. :hack attack: n. [poss. by analogy
with `Big Mac Attack' from ads for the McDonald's fast-food chain; the
variant `big hack attack' is reported] Nearly synonymous with {hacking run},
though the latter more strongly implies an all-nighter. :hack mode: n. 1.
What one is in when hacking, of course. 2. More specifically, a Zen-like
state of total focus on The Problem that may be achieved when one is hacking
(this is why every good hacker is part mystic). Ability to enter such
concentration at will correlates strongly with wizardliness; it is one of the
most important skills learned during {larval stage}. Sometimes amplified as
`deep hack mode'. Being yanked out of hack mode (see {priority interrupt})
may be experienced as a physical shock, and the sensation of being in hack
mode is more than a little habituating. The intensity of this experience is
probably by itself sufficient explanation for the existence of hackers, and
explains why many resist being promoted out of positions where they can code.
see also {cyberspace} (sense 2). Some aspects of hacker etiquette will appear
quite odd to an observer unaware of the high value placed on hack mode. For
example, if someone appears at your door, it is perfectly okay to hold up a
hand (without turning one's eyes away from the screen) to avoid being
interrupted. One may read, type, and interact with the computer for quite
some time before further acknowledging the other's presence (of course, he or
she is reciprocally free to leave without a word). The understanding is that
you might be in {hack mode} with a lot of delicate {state} (sense 2) in your
head, and you dare not {swap} that context out until you have reached a good
point to pause. see also {juggling eggs}. :hack on: vt. [very common] To
{hack}; implies that the subject is some pre-existing hunk of code that one
is evolving, as opposed to something one might {hack up}. :hack together: vt.
[common] To throw something together so it will work. Unlike `kluge together'
or {cruft together}, this does not necessarily have negative connotations.
:hack up: vt. To {hack}, but generally implies that the result is a hack in
sense 1 (a quick hack). Contrast this with {hack on}. To `hack up on' implies
a {quick-and-dirty} modification to an existing system. Contrast {hacked up};
compare {kluge up}, {monkey up}, {cruft together}. :hack value: n. Often
adduced as the reason or motivation for expending effort toward a seemingly
useless goal, the point being that the accomplished goal is a hack. For
example, MacLISP had features for reading and printing Roman numerals, which
were installed purely for hack value. see {display hack} for one method of
computing hack value, but this cannot really be explained, only experienced.
As Louis Armstrong once said when asked to explain jazz: "Man, if you gotta
ask you'll never know." (Feminists please note Fats Waller's explanation of
rhythm: "Lady, if you got to ask, you ain't got it.") :hacked off: adj.
[analogous to `pissed off'] Said of system administrators who have become
annoyed, upset, or touchy owing to suspicions that their sites have been or
are going to be victimized by crackers, or used for inappropriate,
technically illegal, or even overtly criminal activities. For example, having
unreadable files in your home directory called `worm', `lockpick', or
`goroot' would probably be an effective (as well as impressively obvious and
stupid) way to get your sysadmin hacked off at you. It has been pointed out
that there is precedent for this usage in U.S. Navy slang, in which officers
under discipline are sometimes said to be "in hack" and one may speak of
"hacking off the C.O.". :hacked up: adj. Sufficiently patched, kluged, and
tweaked that the surgical scars are beginning to crowd out normal tissue
(compare {critical mass}). Not all programs that are hacked become `hacked
up'; if modifications are done with some eye to coherence and continued
maintainability, the software may emerge better for the experience. Contrast
{hack up}. :hacker: n. [originally, someone who makes furniture with an axe]
1. A person who enjoys exploring the details of programmable systems and how
to stretch their capabilities, as opposed to most users, who prefer to learn
only the minimum necessary. 2. One who programs enthusiastically (even
obsessively) or who enjoys programming rather than just theorizing about
programming. 3. A person capable of appreciating {hack value}. 4. A person
who is good at programming quickly. 5. An expert at a particular program, or
one who frequently does work using it or on it; as in `a Unix hacker'.
(Definitions 1 through 5 are correlated, and people who fit them congregate.)
6. An expert or enthusiast of any kind. One might be an astronomy hacker, for
example. 7. One who enjoys the intellectual challenge of creatively
overcoming or circumventing limitations. 8. [deprecated] A malicious meddler
who tries to discover sensitive information by poking around. Hence `password
hacker', `network hacker'. The correct term for this sense is {cracker}. The
term `hacker' also tends to connote membership in the global community
defined by the net (see {the network} and {Internet address}). For discussion
of some of the basics of this culture, see the How To Become A Hacker
(http://www.tuxedo.org/~esr/faqs/hacker-howto.html) FAQ. It also implies that
the person described is seen to subscribe to some version of the hacker ethic
(see {hacker ethic}). It is better to be described as a hacker by others than
to describe oneself that way. Hackers consider themselves something of an
elite (a meritocracy based on ability), though one to which new members are
gladly welcome. There is thus a certain ego satisfaction to be had in
identifying yourself as a hacker (but if you claim to be one and are not,
you'll quickly be labeled {bogus}). see also {wannabee}. This term seems to
have been first adopted as a badge in the 1960s by the hacker culture
surrounding TMRC and the MIT AI Lab. We have a report that it was used in a
sense close to this entry's by teenage radio hams and electronics tinkerers
in the mid-1950s. :hacker ethic: n. 1. The belief that information-sharing is
a powerful positive good, and that it is an ethical duty of hackers to share
their expertise by writing open-source and facilitating access to information
and to computing resources wherever possible. 2. The belief that
system-cracking for fun and exploration is ethically OK as long as the
cracker commits no theft, vandalism, or breach of confidentiality. Both of
these normative ethical principles are widely, but by no means universally,
accepted among hackers. Most hackers subscribe to the hacker ethic in sense
1, and many act on it by writing and giving away open-source software. A few
go further and assert that _all_ information should be free and _any_
proprietary control of it is bad; this is the philosophy behind the {GNU}
project. Sense 2 is more controversial: some people consider the act of
cracking itself to be unethical, like breaking and entering. But the belief
that `ethical' cracking excludes destruction at least moderates the behavior
of people who see themselves as `benign' crackers (see also {samurai}). On
this view, it may be one of the highest forms of hackerly courtesy to (a)
break into a system, and then (b) explain to the sysop, preferably by email
from a {superuser} account, exactly how it was done and how the hole can be
plugged -- acting as an unpaid (and unsolicited) {tiger team}. The most
reliable manifestation of either version of the hacker ethic is that almost
all hackers are actively willing to share technical tricks, software, and
(where possible) computing resources with other hackers. Huge cooperative
networks such as {Usenet}, {FidoNet} and Internet (see {Internet address})
can function without central control because of this trait; they both rely on
and reinforce a sense of community that may be hackerdom's most valuable
intangible asset. :hacker humor:: A distinctive style of shared intellectual
humor found among hackers, having the following marked characteristics: 1.
Fascination with form-vs.-content jokes, paradoxes, and humor having to do
with confusion of metalevels (see {meta}). One way to make a hacker laugh:
hold a red index card in front of him/her with "GREEN" written on it, or
vice-versa (note, however, that this is funny only the first time). 2.
Elaborate deadpan parodies of large intellectual constructs, such as
specifications (see {write-only memory}), standards documents, language
descriptions (see {INTERCAL}), and even entire scientific theories (see
{quantum bogodynamics}, {computron}). 3. Jokes that involve screwily precise
reasoning from bizarre, ludicrous, or just grossly counter-intuitive
premises. 4. Fascination with puns and wordplay. 5. A fondness for apparently
mindless humor with subversive currents of intelligence in it -- for example,
old Warner Brothers and Rocky & Bullwinkle cartoons, the Marx brothers, the
early B-52s, and Monty Python's Flying Circus. Humor that combines this trait
with elements of high camp and slapstick is especially favored. 6. References
to the symbol-object antinomies and associated ideas in Zen Buddhism and
(less often) Taoism. see {has the X nature}, {Discordianism}, {zen}, {ha ha
only serious}, {koan}, {AI koans}. see also {filk}, {retrocomputing}, and the
Portrait of J. Random Hacker in {Appendix B}. If you have an itchy feeling
that all six of these traits are really aspects of one thing that is
incredibly difficult to talk about exactly, you are (a) correct and (b)
responding like a hacker. These traits are also recognizable (though in a
less marked form) throughout {{science-fiction fandom}}. :Hackers (the
movie): n. A notable bomb from 1995. Should have been titled "Crackers",
because cracking is what the movie was about. It's understandable that they
didn't however; titles redolent of snack food are probably a tough sell in
Hollywood. :hacking run: n. [analogy with `bombing run' or `speed run'] A
hack session extended long outside normal working times, especially one
longer than 12 hours. May cause you to `change phase the hard way' (see
{phase}). :Hacking X for Y: n. [ITS] Ritual phrasing of part of the
information which ITS made publicly available about each user. This
information (the INQUIR record) was a sort of form in which the user could
fill out various fields. On display, two of these fields were always combined
into a project description of the form "Hacking X for Y" (e.g., `"Hacking
perceptrons for Minsky"'). This form of description became traditional and
has since been carried over to other systems with more general facilities for
self-advertisement (such as Unix {plan file}s). :Hackintosh: n. 1. An Apple
Lisa that has been hacked into emulating a Macintosh (also called a `Mac
XL'). 2. A Macintosh assembled from parts theoretically belonging to
different models in the line. :hackish: /hak'ish/ adj. (also {hackishness}
n.) 1. Said of something that is or involves a hack. 2. Of or pertaining to
hackers or the hacker subculture. see also {true-hacker}. :hackishness: n.
The quality of being or involving a hack. This term is considered mildly
silly. Syn. {hackitude}. :hackitude: n. Syn. {hackishness}; this word is
considered sillier. :hair: n. [back-formation from {hairy}] The complications
that make something hairy. "Decoding {TECO} commands requires a certain
amount of hair." Often seen in the phrase `infinite hair', which connotes
extreme complexity. Also in `hairiferous' (tending to promote hair growth):
"GNUMACS elisp encourages lusers to write complex editing modes." "Yeah, it's
pretty hairiferous all right." (or just: "Hair squared!") :hairball: n. 1.
[Fidonet] A large batch of messages that a store-and-forward network is
failing to forward when it should. Often used in the phrase "Fido coughed up
a hairball today", meaning that the stuck messages have just come unstuck,
producing a flood of mail where there had previously been drought. 2. An
unmanageably huge mass of source code. "JWZ thought the Mozilla effort bogged
down because the code was a huge hairball." 3. Any large amount of garbage
coming out suddenly. "Sendmail is coughing up a hairball, so expect some
slowness accessing the Internet." :hairy: adj. 1. Annoyingly complicated.
"{DWIM} is incredibly hairy." 2. Incomprehensible. "{DWIM} is incredibly
hairy." 3. Of people, high-powered, authoritative, rare, expert, and/or
incomprehensible. Hard to explain except in context: "He knows this hairy
lawyer who says there's nothing to worry about." see also {hirsute}. A
well-known result in topology called the Brouwer Fixed-Point Theorem states
that any continuous transformation of a 2-sphere into itself has at least one
fixed point. Mathematically literate hackers tend to associate the term
`hairy' with the informal version of this theorem; "You can't comb a hairy
ball smooth." The adjective `long-haired' is well-attested to have been in
slang use among scientists and engineers during the early 1950s; it was
equivalent to modern `hairy' senses 1 and 2, and was very likely ancestral to
the hackish use. In fact the noun `long-hair' was at the time used to
describe a person satisfying sense 3. Both senses probably passed out of use
when long hair was adopted as a signature trait by the 1960s counterculture,
leaving hackish `hairy' as a sort of stunted mutant relic. In British
mainstream use, "hairy" means "dangerous", and consequently, in British
programming terms, "hairy" may be used to denote complicated and/or
incomprehensible code, but only if that complexity or incomprehesiveness is
also considered dangerous. :HAKMEM: /hak'mem/ n. MIT AI Memo 239 (February
1972). A legendary collection of neat mathematical and programming hacks
contributed by many people at MIT and elsewhere. (The title of the memo
really is "HAKMEM", which is a 6-letterism for `hacks memo'.) Some of them
are very useful techniques, powerful theorems, or interesting unsolved
problems, but most fall into the category of mathematical and computer
trivia. Here is a sampling of the entries (with authors), slightly
paraphrased: Item 41 (Gene Salamin): There are exactly 23,000 prime numbers
less than 2^(18). Item 46 (Rich Schroeppel): The most _probable_ suit
distribution in bridge hands is 4-4-3-2, as compared to 4-3-3-3, which is the
most _evenly_ distributed. This is because the world likes to have unequal
numbers: a thermodynamic effect saying things will not be in the state of
lowest energy, but in the state of lowest disordered energy. Item 81 (Rich
Schroeppel): Count the magic squares of order 5 (that is, all the 5-by-5
arrangements of the numbers from 1 to 25 such that all rows, columns, and
diagonals add up to the same number). There are about 320 million, not
counting those that differ only by rotation and reflection. Item 154 (Bill
Gosper): The myth that any given programming language is machine independent
is easily exploded by computing the sum of powers of 2. If the result loops
with period = 1 with sign +, you are on a sign-magnitude machine. If the
result loops with period = 1 at -1, you are on a twos-complement machine. If
the result loops with period greater than 1, including the beginning, you are
on a ones-complement machine. If the result loops with period greater than 1,
not including the beginning, your machine isn't binary -- the pattern should
tell you the base. If you run out of memory, you are on a string or bignum
system. If arithmetic overflow is a fatal error, some fascist pig with a
read-only mind is trying to enforce machine independence. But the very
ability to trap overflow is machine dependent. By this strategy, consider the
universe, or, more precisely, algebra: Let X = the sum of many powers of 2 =
...111111 (base 2). Now add X to itself: X + X = ...111110. Thus, 2X = X - 1,
so X = -1. Therefore algebra is run on a machine (the universe) that is
two's-complement. Item 174 (Bill Gosper and Stuart Nelson): 21963283741 is
the only number such that if you represent it on the {PDP-10} as both an
integer and a floating-point number, the bit patterns of the two
representations are identical. Item 176 (Gosper): The "banana phenomenon" was
encountered when processing a character string by taking the last 3 letters
typed out, searching for a random occurrence of that sequence in the text,
taking the letter following that occurrence, typing it out, and iterating.
This ensures that every 4-letter string output occurs in the original. The
program typed BANANANANANANANA.... We note an ambiguity in the phrase, "the
Nth occurrence of." In one sense, there are five 00's in