 GE's computer group, but it was never very successful: at its peak in the
1980s, there were between 75 and 100 Multics sites, each a multi-million
dollar mainframe. One of the former Multics developers from Bell Labs was Ken
Thompson, and {Unix} deliberately carried through and extended many of
Multics' design ideas; indeed, Thompson described the very name `Unix' as `a
weak pun on Multics'. For this and other reasons, aspects of the Multics
design remain a topic of occasional debate among hackers. see also
{brain-damaged} and {GCOS}. MIT ended its development association with
Multics in 1977. Honeywell sold its computer business to Bull in the mid 80s,
and development on Multics was stopped in 1988. Four Multics sites were known
to be still in use as late as 1998, but the last one (a Canadian military
site) was decomissioned in November 2000. There is a Multics page at
`http://www.stratus.com/pub/vos/multics/tvv/multics.html'. :multitask: n.
Often used of humans in the same meaning it has for computers, to describe a
person doing several things at once (but see {thrash}). The term `multiplex',
from communications technology (meaning to handle more than one channel at
the same time), is used similarly. :mumblage: /muhm'bl*j/ n. The topic of
one's mumbling (see {mumble}). "All that mumblage" is used like "all that
stuff" when it is not quite clear how the subject of discussion works, or
like "all that crap" when `mumble' is being used as an implicit replacement
for pejoratives. :mumble: interj. 1. Said when the correct response is too
complicated to enunciate, or the speaker has not thought it out. Often
prefaces a longer answer, or indicates a general reluctance to get into a
long discussion. "Don't you think that we could improve LISP performance by
using a hybrid reference-count transaction garbage collector, if the cache is
big enough and there are some extra cache bits for the microcode to use?"
"Well, mumble ... I'll have to think about it." 2. [MIT] Expression of
not-quite-articulated agreement, often used as an informal vote of consensus
in a meeting: "So, shall we dike out the COBOL emulation?" "Mumble!" 3.
Sometimes used as an expression of disagreement (distinguished from sense 2
by tone of voice and other cues). "I think we should buy a {VAX}." "Mumble!"
Common variant: `mumble frotz' (see {frotz}; interestingly, one does not say
`mumble frobnitz' even though `frotz' is short for `frobnitz'). 4. Yet
another {metasyntactic variable}, like {foo}. 5. When used as a question
("Mumble?") means "I didn't understand you". 6. Sometimes used in `public'
contexts on-line as a placefiller for things one is barred from giving
details about. For example, a poster with pre-released hardware in his
machine might say "Yup, my machine now has an extra 16M of memory, thanks to
the card I'm testing for Mumbleco." 7. A conversational wild card used to
designate something one doesn't want to bother spelling out, but which can be
{glark}ed from context. Compare {blurgle}. 8. [XEROX PARC] A colloquialism
used to suggest that further discussion would be fruitless. :munch: vt.
[often confused with {mung}, q.v.] To transform information in a serial
fashion, often requiring large amounts of computation. To trace down a data
structure. Related to {crunch} and nearly synonymous with {grovel}, but
connotes less pain. :munching: n. Exploration of security holes of someone
else's computer for thrills, notoriety, or to annoy the system manager.
Compare {cracker}. see also {hacked off}. :munching squares: n. A {display
hack} dating back to the PDP-1 (ca. 1962, reportedly discovered by Jackson
Wright), which employs a trivial computation (repeatedly plotting the graph Y
= X XOR T for successive values of T -- see {HAKMEM} items 146-148) to
produce an impressive display of moving and growing squares that devour the
screen. The initial value of T is treated as a parameter, which, when
well-chosen, can produce amazing effects. Some of these, later (re)discovered
on the LISP machine, have been christened `munching triangles' (try AND for
XOR and toggling points instead of plotting them), `munching w's', and
`munching mazes'. More generally, suppose a graphics program produces an
impressive and ever-changing display of some basic form, foo, on a display
terminal, and does it using a relatively simple program; then the program (or
the resulting display) is likely to be referred to as `munching foos'. [This
is a good example of the use of the word {foo} as a {metasyntactic
variable}.] :munchkin: /muhnch'kin/ n. [from the squeaky-voiced little people
in L. Frank Baum's "The Wizard of Oz"] A teenage-or-younger micro enthusiast
hacking BASIC or something else equally constricted.