 :xyzzy: /X·Y·Z·Z·Y/, /X·Y·ziz´ee/, /ziz´ee/, /ik·ziz´ee/, adj. [from the
ADVENT game] The {canonical} `magic word'. This comes from {ADVENT}, in which
the idea is to explore an underground cave with many rooms and to collect the
treasures you find there. If you type xyzzy at the appropriate time, you can
move instantly between two otherwise distant points. If, therefore, you
encounter some bit of {magic}, you might remark on this quite succinctly by
saying simply "Xyzzy!" "Ordinarily you can't look at someone else's screen if
he has protected it, but if you type quadruple-bucky-clear the system will
let you do it anyway." "Xyzzy!" It's traditional for xyzzy to be an {Easter
egg} in games with text interfaces. Xyzzy has actually been implemented as an
undocumented no-op command on several OSes; in Data General's AOS/VS, for
example, it would typically respond "Nothing happens", just as {ADVENT} did
if the magic was invoked at the wrong spot or before a player had performed
the action that enabled the word. In more recent 32-bit versions, by the way,
AOS/VS responds "Twice as much happens". Early versions of the popular
`minesweeper' game under Microsoft Windows had a cheat mode triggered by the
command `xyzzy<enter><right-shift>' that turns the top-left pixel of the
screen different colors depending on whether or not the cursor is over a
bomb. This feature temporarily disappeared in Windows 98, but reappeared in
Windows 2000. The following passage from The Wonderful Wizard of Oz by L.
Frank Baum, suggesting a possible pre-ADVENT origin, has recently come to
light: "Ziz-zy, zuz-zy, zik!" said Dorothy, who was now standing on both
feet. This ended the saying of the charm, and they heard a great chattering
and flapping of wings, as the band of Winged Monkeys flew up to them. The
text can be viewed at Project Gutenberg. Y YA- YABA YAFIYGI yak shaving YAUN
yellow card yellow wire Yet Another YHBT YKYBHTLW YMMV You are not expected
to understand this You know you've been hacking too long when Your mileage
may vary Yow! yoyo mode Yu-Shiang Whole Fish