 YAUN: /yawn/ [Acronym for `Yet Another UNIX Nerd'] n. Reported from the San
Diego Computer Society (predominantly a microcomputer users' group) as a
good-natured punning insult aimed at UNIX zealots. Yellow Book: [proposed] n.
The print version of this Jargon File; `The New Hacker's Dictionary',
forthcoming from MIT Press, 1991. Includes all the material in the File, plus
a Foreword by Guy L. Steele and a Preface by Eric S. Raymond. Most
importantly, the book version is nicely typeset and includes almost all of
the infamous Crunchly cartoons by the Great Quux, each attached to an
appropriate entry. Yet Another: adj. [From UNIX's `yacc(1)', `Yet Another
Compiler- Compiler', a LALR parser generator] 1. Of your own work: A humorous
allusion often used in titles to acknowledge that the topic is not original,
though the content is. As in `Yet Another AI Group' or `Yet Another Simulated
Annealing Algorithm'. 2. Of others' work: Describes something of which there
are far too many. see also {YA-}, {YABA}, {YAUN}. You are not expected to
understand this: cav. [UNIX] The canonical comment describing something
{magic} or too complicated to bother explaining properly. From an infamous
comment in the context-switching code of the V6 UNIX kernel. You know you've
been hacking too long when...: The set-up line for a genre of one-liners told
by hackers about themselves. These include the following: * not only do you
check your email more often than your paper mail, but you remember your
{network address} faster than your postal one. * your {SO} kisses you on the
neck and the first thing you think is "Uh, oh, {priority interrupt}." * you
go to balance your checkbook and discover that you're doing it in octal. *
your computers have a higher street value than your car. * in your universe,
`round numbers' are powers of 2, not 10. * more than once, you have woken up
recalling a dream in some programming language. * you realize you have never
seen half of your best friends. [An early version of this entry said "All but
one of these have been reliably reported as hacker traits (some of them quite
often). Even hackers may have trouble spotting the ringer." The ringer was
balancing one's checkbook in octal, which I made up out of whole cloth.
Although more respondents picked that one out as fiction than any of the
others, I also received multiple independent reports of its actually
happening. --- ESR] Your mileage may vary: cav. [from the standard disclaimer
attached to EPA mileage ratings by American car manufacturers] 1. A ritual
warning often found in UNIX freeware distributions. Translates roughly as
"Hey, I tried to write this portably, but who *knows* what'll happen on your
system?" 2. A qualifier more generally attached to advice. "I find that
sending flowers works well, but your mileage may vary." Yow!: /yow/ [from
"Zippy the Pinhead" comix] interj. A favored hacker expression of humorous
surprise or emphasis. "Yow! Check out what happens when you twiddle the foo
option on this display hack!" Compare {gurfle}. yoyo mode: n. The state in
which the system is said to be when it rapidly alternates several times
between being up and being down. Interestingly (and perhaps not by
coincidence), many hardware vendors give out free yoyos at Usenix exhibits.
Sun Microsystems gave out logoized yoyos at SIGPLAN '88. Tourists staying at
one of Atlanta's most respectable hotels were subsequently treated to the
sight of 200 of the country's top computer scientists testing yo-yo
algorithms in the lobby. Yu-Shiang Whole Fish: /yoo-shyang hohl fish/ n. obs.
The character gamma (extended SAIL ASCII 0001001), which with a loop in its
tail looks like a little fish swimming down the page. The term is actually
the name of a Chinese dish in which a fish is cooked whole (not {parse}d) and
covered with Yu-Shiang (or Yu-Hsiang) sauce. Usage: primarily by people on
the MIT LISP Machine, which could display this character on the screen. Tends
to elicit incredulity from people who hear about it second-hand. = Z = =====
zap: 1. n. Spiciness. 2. vt. To make food spicy. 3. vt. To make someone
`suffer' by making his food spicy. (Most hackers love spicy food.
Hot-and-sour soup is considered wimpy unless it makes you wipe your nose for
the rest of the meal.) see {zapped}. 4. vt. To modify, usually to correct;
esp. used when the action is performed with a debugger or binary patching
tool. Also implies surgical precision. "Zap the debug level to 6 and run it
again." In the IBM mainframe world, binary patches are applied to programs or
to the OS with a program called `superzap', whose file name is `IMASPZAP' (I
M A SuPerZAP). 5. vt. To erase or reset. 6. To {fry} a chip with static
electricity. "Uh oh --- I think that lightning strike may have zapped the
disk controller." zapped: adj. Spicy. This term is used to distinguish
between food that is hot (in temperature) and food that is *spicy*-hot. For
example, the Chinese appetizer Bon Bon Chicken is a kind of chicken salad
that is cold but zapped; by contrast, {vanilla} wonton soup is hot but not
zapped. see also {{oriental food}}, {laser chicken}. see {zap}, senses 1 and
2. zen: vt. To figure out something by meditation or by a sudden flash of
enlightenment. Originally applied to bugs, but occasionally applied to
problems of life in general. "How'd you figure out the buffer allocation
problem?" "Oh, I zenned it." Contrast {grok}, which connotes a time-extended
version of zenning a system. Compare {hack mode}. see also {guru}. zero: vt.
1. To set to 0. Usually said of small pieces of data, such as bits or words
(esp. in the construction `zero out'). 2. To erase; to discard all data from.
Said of disks and directories, where `zeroing' need not involve actually
writing zeroes throughout the area being zeroed. One may speak of something
being `logically zeroed' rather than being `physically zeroed'. see
{scribble}. zero-content: adj. Syn. {content-free}. zeroth: /zee'rohth/ adj.
First. Among software designers, comes from C's and LISP's 0-based indexing
of arrays. Hardware people also tend to start counting at 0 instead of 1;
this is natural since, e.g., the 256 states of 8 bits correspond to the
binary numbers 0, 1, ..., 255 and the digital devices known as `counters'
count in this way. Hackers and computer scientists often like to call the
first chapter of a publication `chapter 0', especially if it is of an
introductory nature (one of the classic instances was in the First Edition of
{K&R}). In recent years this trait has also been observed among many pure
mathematicians (who have an independent tradition of numbering from 0).
Zero-based numbering tends to reduce {fencepost error}s, though it cannot
eliminate them entirely. zigamorph: /zig'*-morf/ n. Hex FF (11111111) when
used as a delimiter or {fence} character. Usage: primarily at IBM shops. zip:
[primarily MS-DOS] vt. To create a compressed archive from a group of files
using PKWare's PKZIP or a compatible archiver. Its use is spreading now that
portable implementations of the algorithm have been written. Commonly used as
follows: "I'll zip it up and send it to you." see {arc}, {tar and feather}.
zipperhead: [IBM] n. A person with a closed mind. zombie: [UNIX] n. A process
that has died but has not yet relinquished its process table slot (because
the parent process hasn't executed a `wait(2)' for it yet). These can be seen
in `ps(1)' listings occasionally. Compare {orphan}. zorch: /zorch/ 1. [TMRC]
v. To attack with an inverse heat sink. 2. [TMRC] v. To travel, with v
approaching c [that is, with velocity approaching lightspeed --- ESR]. 3.
[MIT] v. To propel something very quickly. "The new comm software is very
fast; it really zorches files through the network." 4. [MIT] n. Influence.
Brownie points. Good karma. The intangible and fuzzy currency in which favors
are measured. "I'd rather not ask him for that just yet; I think I've used up
my quota of zorch with him for the week." 5. [MIT] n. Energy, drive, or
ability. "I think I'll {punt} that change for now; I've been up for 30 hours
and I've run out of zorch." Zork: /zork/ n. The second of the great early
experiments in computer fantasy gaming; see {ADVENT}. Originally written on
MIT-DM during the late 1970s, later distributed with BSD UNIX and
commercialized as `The Zork Trilogy' by Infocom. zorkmid: /zork'mid/ n. The
canonical unit of currency in hacker-written games. This originated in {zork}
but has spread to {nethack} and is referred to in several other games. =
[^A-Za-z] (see {regexp}) = ============================ 'Snooze: /snooz/
[FidoNet] n. Fidonews, the weekly official on-line newsletter of FidoNet. As
the editorial policy of Fidonews is "anything that arrives, we print", there
are often large articles completely unrelated to FidoNet, which in turn tend
to elicit {flamage} in subsequent issues. (TM): // [USENET] ASCII rendition
of the trademark-superscript symbol appended to phrases that the author feels
should be recorded for posterity, perhaps in future editions of this lexicon.
Sometimes used ironically as a form of protest against the recent spate of
software and algorithm patents and `look and feel' lawsuits. see also {UN*X}.
-oid: [from `android'] suff. 1. This suffix is used as in mainstream English
to indicate a poor imitation, a counterfeit, or some otherwise slightly bogus
resemblance. Hackers will happily use it with all sorts of non-Greco/Latin
stem words that wouldn't keep company with it in mainstream English. For
example, "He's a nerdoid" means that he superficially resembles a nerd but
can't make the grade; a `modemoid' might be a 300-baud box (Real Modems run
at 9600); a `computeroid' might be any {bitty box}. The word `keyboid' could
be used to describe a {chiclet keyboard}, but would have to be written;
spoken, it would confuse the listener as to the speaker's city of origin. 2.
There is a more specific sense of `oid' as an indicator for `resembling an
android' which in the past has been confined to science-fiction fans and
hackers. It too has recently (in 1991) started to go mainstream (most notably
in the term `trendoid' for victims of terminal hipness). This is probably
traceable to the popularization of the term {droid} in "Star Wars" and its
sequels. Coinages in both forms have been common in science fiction for at
least fifty years, and hackers (who are often SF fans) have probably been
making `-oid' jargon for almost that long [though GLS and I can personally
confirm only that they were already common in the mid-1970s --- ESR]. -ware:
[from `software'] suff. Commonly used to form jargon terms for classes of
software. For examples, see {careware}, {crippleware}, {crudware},
{freeware}, {fritterware}, {guiltware}, {liveware}, {meatware}, {payware},
{psychedelicware}, {shareware}, {shelfware}, {vaporware}, {wetware}.
/dev/null: /dev-nuhl/ [from the UNIX null device, used as a data sink] n. A
notional `black hole' in any information space being discussed, used, or
referred to. A controversial posting, for example, might end "Kudos to
rasputin@kremlin.org, flames to /dev/null". see {bit bucket}.