 ZORK /zork/ n. Second of the great early experiments in computer fantasy
gaming; see ADVENT. Originally written on MIT-DMS during the late seventies,
later distributed with BSD UNIX and commercialized as "The Zork Trilogy" by
Infocom. Appendix A: Hacker Folklore *************************** This
appendix contains several fables and legends which illuminate the meaning of
various entries in the main text. All of this material except THE UNTIMELY
DEMISE OF MABEL THE MONKEY appeared in the 1983 paper edition of the Jargon
File (but not in the previous on-line versions). The Meaning of "Hack"
********************* "The word HACK doesn't really have 69 different
meanings," according to Phil Agre, an MIT hacker. "In fact, HACK has only one
meaning, an extremely subtle and profound one which defies articulation.
Which connotation is implied by a given use of the word depends in similarly
profound ways on the context. Similar remarks apply to a couple of other
hacker words, most notably RANDOM." Hacking might be characterized as "an
appropriate application of ingenuity". Whether the result is a
quick-and-dirty patchwork job or a carefully crafted work of art, you have to
admire the cleverness that went into it. An important secondary meaning of
`hack' is `a creative practical joke'. This kind of hack is often easier to
explain to non-hackers than the programming kind. Accordingly, here are three
examples of practical joke hacks: In 1961, students from Caltech (California
Institute of Technology in Pasadena) hacked the Rose Bowl football game. One
student posed as a reporter and "interviewed" the director of the University
of Washington card stunts (such stunts involve people in the stands who hold
up colored cards to make pictures). The reporter learned exactly how the
stunts were operated, and also that the director would be out to dinner
later. While the director was eating, the students (who called themselves the
"Fiendish Fourteen") picked a lock and stole one of the direction sheets for
the card stunts. They then had a printer run off 2300 copies of the sheet.
The next day they picked the lock again and stole the master plans for the
stunts, large sheets of graph paper colored in with the stunt pictures. Using
these as a guide, they carefully made "corrections" for three of the stunts
on the duplicate instruction sheets. Finally, they broke in once more,
replacing the stolen master plans and substituting the stack of altered
instruction sheets for the original set. The result was that three of the
pictures were totally different. Instead of spelling "WASHINGTON", the word
"CALTECH" was flashed. Another stunt showed the word "HUSKIES", the
Washington nickname, but spelled it backwards. And what was supposed to have
been a picture of a husky instead showed a beaver. (Both Caltech and MIT use
the beaver as a mascot. Beavers are nature's engineers.) After the game, the
Washington faculty athletic representative said, "Some thought it ingenious;
others were indignant." The Washington student body president remarked, "No
hard feelings, but at the time it was unbelievable. We were amazed." This is
now considered a classic hack, particularly because revising the direction
sheets constituted a form of programming not unlike computer programming.
Another classic hack: One winter, late at night, an MIT fraternity hosed down
an underpass that is part of a commuter expressway near MIT. This produced an
ice slick that "trapped" a couple of small cars: they didn't have the
momentum or traction to climb out of the underpass. While it was clever to
apply some simple science to trap a car, it was also very dangerous as it
could have caused a collision. Therefore this was a very poor hack overall.
(There is another story about an even less appealing hack in which some MIT
students used thermite to weld a trolley car to its tracks. The story may be
apocryphal, however.) And yet another: On November 20, 1982, MIT hacked the
Harvard-Yale football game. Just after Harvard's second touchdown against
Yale in the second quarter, a small black ball popped up out of the ground at
the 40-yard line, and grew bigger, and bigger, and bigger. The letters "MIT"
appeared all over the ball. As the players and officials stood around
gawking, the ball grew to six feet in diameter and then burst with a bang and
a cloud of white smoke. As the Boston Globe later reported, "If you want to
know the truth,